The corporate sector is doing great.
>> It's all about earnings.
>> The headline on 2026 is the noise
continues to be noisier and ratcheted
up.
>> I think investors to be fair are keeping
their eye on the ball.
>> There has been a lot happening in the
face of what has been largely a
resilient equity market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, the equity market rally
broadens. Small caps beating the S&P 500
for 10 consecutive sessions as President
Trump is pushing for tech companies to
fund new power plants and Federal
Reserve officials are lining up to hit
pause on rate cuts. One day before the
Fed goes silent.
>> And it makes sense given what we've seen
in terms of the data, especially the
economic data. Look at the jobless
claims yesterday. The Fed has cut rates
at each of the final three meetings of
2026. And now there's this inclination
that maybe it's time to stop, take a
breath, and hit pause for a bit. That's
what I heard with New York Fed President
John Williams earlier in the week. He's
speaking on Council of Foreign
Relations. I was there, Jonathan, in the
audience, and there wasn't a sense of
urgency that he felt the Fed needed to
act.
>> You've seen that echoed on Wall Street
this week. Mike Foli over at JP Morgan,
no rate cuts this year. We'll catch up
with Steven Stanley of Santandere also
in the camp of no rate cuts this year.
And Morgan Stanley's Mike Apen saying
this about consumption. The data is
better. He says consumption is
overshooting. He expects it to continue.
>> That's what a lot of people are saying
that the consumer is resilient right
now. We heard that at on all the bank
calls this week as well coming from Bank
of America and other seuite executives
as well as what you see from the
individuals like Torston Sllock. this
potential tailwind risk of 2026
overheating. You have the one big
beautiful bill, huge fiscal impulse
because we're heading into a midterm
election.
>> You mentioned the banks. Let's talk
about the banks. So, the performance
this week has been pretty interesting.
JP Morgan this week down by something
like 6%. Then you've got the likes of
Goldman up by around about 4%. Two very
different stories. What gives? Plenty of
explanations. Here's one. One has got
exposure to credit cards and the
president's going after them and the
other one does not at all.
>> It was all about policies out of
Washington, even for the banks that did
so well. Some of that trading has to do
with volatility, getting deals over the
finish line, has to do with deregulatory
push, how a lot of people were on the
sidelines during the Biden
administration. And we're so excited for
Trump to come in for M&A and IPOs. But
if you have a credit card now, you have
a target on your back from this
administration. The president is not
backing down. Who knows what we get?
potentially some sort of swipe fee
competition bill gets through. Maybe a
cap not as high as 10% according to
people I'm thinking of. But if you have
a credit card, this is now a risk for
this year before the midterm elections
in the
>> populist bark into the midterms. Let's
see what the bite actually looks like.
It's not just the financials, it's tech
as well. We open up the program by
talking about energy and it's not just
the president going after these names.
Governor Kathy Hokll here in New York
doing almost exactly the same thing,
pushing for the energy companies to
either generate their own electricity or
pay more for the stuff they're taking
from the grid.
>> Basically, what the president is saying
is you tech companies need to either
become utility companies or subsidize
the US consumer cuz these rates are too
high. And we saw this story play out in
Virginia and New Jersey when it cames to
those governor races. Individuals that
were talking about the electricity
prices are too high. Those individuals
did very well at the polls. This is
interesting because the president is not
just be going to be flanked by Governor
Glenn Yncan, a Republican in Virginia,
which has a lot of data centers. Josh
Shapiro of Pennsylvania will also be
there at the White House. You see this
olive branch to the left to the
Democrats from this president. And you
know what, Jonathan, a lot of these
issues should be dealt with on a state
level. Trump is taking it to the federal
level.
>> We're going to see more of this in the
year to come. No doubt. In fact, the
years to come. If you are just joining
us, welcome to the program. Equity
futures this morning positive by about a
third of 1% on the S&P 500. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Eric
Freriedman of Northern Trust with stocks
near record highs. Dana Peterson of the
conference board on the issues keeping
seuitees up at night and Eric and
Ajarian of UPS wrapping up big bank
earnings on Wall Street. We begin this
out with stocks rising on a fresh round
of momentum across the equity market.
Eric Freriedman of Northern Trust
writing, "We remain constructive on
traditionally riskier asset classes. We
expect stocks to continue to outperform
bonds. Eric joins us now for more. Eric,
one, congratulations on the new C2.
Welcome to the program. And three, the
first question, sir. It's good to see
you. Let's just get into it. What
underpins that view that's pushing
stocks to outperform St. Barnes?
>> Jonathan, congratulations to you as
well. I think first and foremost, we
still think that this notion of
consensus being still too bearish on
growth and probably too overzealous on
inflation, a theme that we talked about
throughout 2025, we think continues. And
Amarie, I think, nailed it with some of
her comments about the banks that we've
heard some heard from thus far. I think
number one, consumers at the margin are
not outperforming massively, but they're
really hanging in there. We've seen a
very promotional environment. We've seen
a lot of discounting, but that being
said, consumers are still very involved
in terms of day-to-day purchases. Also,
corporations, not just in the US, but
globally, they've really recalibrated,
Jonathan, in terms of thinking about
trades and tariffs and what may happen
headline by headline in general. That
recalibration, I think your your
colleague Tom King would say the
adjustment process is really fully
underway. So, those are still two
tailwinds until we're proven wrong.
Again, we have to respect the fact that
we pulled forward. so much in terms of
earnings, so much in terms of returns
that we don't think this year will
necessarily be a continuation of the
last three, but still incrementally
positive on stocks over bonds.
>> It is a midterm year, Eric. I was going
through your note, an interesting read,
and you said this in a midterm election
year, it keeps the risk on bias intact.
Is there something different about this
populist twist that might upset the
traditional story?
>> I think the biggest risk, Jonathan, is
that the Fed loses the tenure. And and
when I say that, I think, you know,
you've all done a great job of reporting
on the various policy sets that may come
forth. There's certainly a shift in
voters minds about what really their
priorities are. And a lot of it focuses
on the economy and inflation. And one of
the things that we obviously enjoy about
our line of work is that markets don't
really care about narratives. They care
about perceived policy impacts to, you
know, things like getting paid back. So
there have been a couple instances in
history, not to go back to history
books, where the Fed has lost a tenure.
And for us that would signify a tenure,
you know, north of 475 or five. Pretty
far from where we are right now. But
that could probably upset the narrative,
if you will, Jonathan, that, you know,
all these policies have to be ultimately
paid for. For a long time, the bond
market has kind of shrugged them off.
But in aggregate, if there's too much,
we think that risk of the, you know, the
475 to 5% 10-year uh yield challenge,
that could be something that come
becomes more front and center.
>> You might be giving the Treasury
Secretary a heart attack this morning,
Eric. What kind of policies exactly from
Washington could put the put the 10-year
yield north of four and a half percent.
>> I think the biggest San Marie would be,
you know, an overextension of let's
let's call it tax or perhaps more
episodic stimulus that that eventually
just aggregates to a point, you know,
everything from, you know, a lot of the
the considerations around around tips,
you know, taxes on tips or even even
some what's called state level stimulus,
if you will, that that pops in. I do
think that ultimately, you know, and
again, we have this AIPA ruling hanging
over our heads that, you know, that that
outcome is obviously an uncertain one,
but if we do have some concerns from the
bond market about payfors, as well as an
increased level of stimulus coming
through that is not fully paid for,
those are items that eventually, let's
call it the St. Bernard, that is the
market that lots of things tug on its
fur may say, okay, we've had enough.
We're going to test the resolve of this
of this administration. That's where
investors could get concerned that 4 and
a half 475 level becomes much more
relevant.
>> A lot of guests have come on this
program and said look through the
Supreme Court because even if they do
strike down AIPA the president is going
to use other legal justifications for
his tariffs. Do you think that it really
is a market moving event?
>> You know Marie you individually have
done a great job almost encyclopedic
about the other sections that the that
the you know administration could use.
Where there's a will there's a way.
That's our our thought process. We're
obviously not uh trade experts dayto-day
or trade law experts, but there is a
clear bias from this administration.
Everything from a you know cheering a
CPI report and other factors with uh you
know quoting the tariff regime as being
at least a a causal agent in helping
things out. So where there is a will
there is a way. So we do think that
again the reaction will probably just be
that a reaction but again our thought is
that the the tariff regime will continue
probably just under some different
section of the law. Eron, the stock
market's moved on, as you well know. The
equal weight S&P 500 all-time highs, six
days of gains. The Russell we talked
about at the top of the hour
outperformed the S&P for 10 consecutive
sessions. Eric, a lot of people have
been waiting for this and waiting for
this and they see these moments where
you get these rotations, but they don't
last too long. Has something changed?
Yeah, Jonathan, we do think something
has changed. I think that the broadening
out trade has been very well documented.
I mean, the way that we're playing this
is that we really don't want to be
underweight tech. We really don't want
to be underweight. Some of those picks
and shovel companies that that we've all
talked about for some time. And again,
part of our overweight stance towards
equities is that we want to have at
least equal weight exposure to tech and
and infrastructure and then a little bit
of the other things that haven't really
caught up. Again, I think the pull
forward though of returns, just the
things we've been talking to our clients
about is that look, we've compounded in
the S&P over the last three years at
23%, EPHA 18%, EM 17%. Those are big
numbers. So that pull forward is
something we have to respect. We do
think the broading out is a good thing,
but again have a little more subdued
expectations for returns for this year.
That's probably the right right
posturing to think about as we as we
turn the page.
>> Eric, can we just sit on smalls just for
a moment? Initially when this trade
ignited, it was about rates. The rate
cut story is really stalled now. Rates
themselves have stabilized. What's it
about now?
>> Yeah, I think it's about it's about a
catchup, Jonathan. I mean a couple
things about the Russell index. you
think about the you know on the quality
factor about 25% of the Russell 2000
does actually not have profits so you
know there is a bit of a of a momentum
called lower quality bias there also
there's a large bias towards financials
which people don't really think about
and obviously financial related uh
entities and one of the things to keep
in mind is that the 10-year to Fed fund
spread is actually at its widest it's
been in about a year not it's kind of in
line with where it's been over the last
5 years but over the more recent time
period that steep deepening, if you
will, between Fed funds and the 10-year
that does bode well for uh for that set
and certainly has been a a tailwind for
for the Russell 2000.
>> The tenure this morning, 417. Eric, good
to see you, sir. Eric Freeman there of
Northern Trust. Thank you for joining
us. Small cap so far this year, a couple
of weeks into a new year. The Russell is
up by close to 8% to be precise, up by
7.76%
so far in 2026. That is quite a run.
That's the stock market. Let's give an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn for more. Oh, hey Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. President Trump
and the governors of several
northeastern states agreeing to push for
an emergency wholesale electricity
auction that would compel technology
companies to effectively fund new power
plants. The plan set to be announced
this morning seeks to address how the
nation can supply electricity to data
centers without hiking utility bills for
homes and businesses.
Iran averting a US strike by pledging
not to execute protesters. In a post on
Truth Social, President Donald Trump
writing, "Iran's decision not to
sentence protesters to death is good
news." Iran's judiciary on Wednesday
ruled out a death sentence for a
26-year-old activist who it said was at
risk of imminent execution.
The US and Taiwan agreeing to a trade
pact that would lower tariffs on goods
from the island to 15%. In return,
Taiwanese semiconductor companies will
increase financing for their American
operations by half a trillion dollars.
That includes at least $250 billion in
direct investments to expand
semiconductor energy and AI facilities.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
and Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
later on this hour. Up next on the
program, pushing big tech to pick up the
tab.
>> Every company will be given the right to
build their own power plant. will use
every tool at our disposal to ensure
that the United States can build and
maintain the largest, most powerful, and
most advanced AI infrastructure anywhere
on the planet.
>> That conversation up next with John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group, live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Things are a little quieter state side
going into the long weekend. Things
might get noisy next week. Check it out.
The president Wednesday. This is the
main event next week and could well be
market moving given the experience of
the year so far. The president
addressing the World Economic Forum on
Wednesday morning. So, if you are one of
these individuals that he thinks you're
a globalist elite, you potentially might
get called out when the president gives
his speech at the World Economic Forum.
But we also know that in this push for
affordability he's had domestically,
he's going to talk about that at on this
stage in front of everyone around the
world. Caroline Levit talking about how
he wants to talk about housing while
he's there. So, whatever his message is
internationally, there will be some
thread back to the US
>> this year. So far, defense sector, whips
sword. Home builders, you mentioned
them, whips sword. Credit card issuers,
whips sword. What's in store on
Wednesday? What are the sectors? The
tech players, energy, I don't know at
this point.
>> Well, the tech sector has already been
whipsawed in a sense. We've already
heard from Microsoft saying we are going
to make sure that we are putting up more
of the money for the electricity. And
Gil Lauria is quoted as saying this
might actually start to hit some of the
tech players margins cuz the president
is basically asking basically the crux
of this is you have to subsidize
American consumers electricity bills.
>> That's a story for next week. This
morning equity futures still just about
positive up by a third of 1% on the S&P
500. On the NASDAQ up by 0.6 the big
winner of the year so far the Russell
small caps higher by 0.4%.
under Savannah this morning pushing big
tech to pick up the tab.
>> Every company will be given the right to
build their own power plant. So when you
build, you can build your power plant
with it and you are essentially going to
become your own utility. Any excess
energy you're going to sell back to the
grid and make plenty of money doing it.
and use every tool at our disposal to
ensure that the United States can build
and maintain the largest, most powerful,
and most advanced AI infrastructure
anywhere on the planet.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump pushing for tech
companies to foot the bill for new
plants to power AI data centers. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the move
would fund some $15 billion of new
plants to take pressure off of homes and
businesses. Joining us now from
Washington is Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall.
Tyler, the big push, the latest big push
of the last 24 hours.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. I mean,
this is considered to be an
unprecedented move aimed at easing
concerns that data centers are driving
up electricity costs amid the AI boom
and the fact that this White House is
playing defense when it comes to
affordability. Now, a White House
official tells Bloomberg News that
President Trump, alongside a number of
governors whose states are served by the
nation's largest power grid, PJM, will
call for an emergency wholesale energy
auction, where essentially big tech
companies would place bids to fund new
power plants. And we are talking about,
just for context here, unique and
one-time terms. Typically, PJM holds
electricity auctions for a 12-month
period, but instead, this plan is
putting forth the idea of 15-year
contracts where the only biders are data
center owners and operators. Now, this
grid in particular, which serves 13
states, has been strained by more data
centers coming online and actually more
power plants going offline faster than
they can be replaced, which has put a
squeeze on supplies. And as you heard
there, President Trump has previously
floated this idea that he likes that
data centers could be built alongside
power plants. And we sort of heard him
tease that this announcement was going
to be coming earlier this week when he
took to Truth Social. And he said that
he was working to ensure that big tech
doesn't drive up prices and praised, as
Anie mentioned at the top of the
segment, a pledge by Microsoft to pay
more of its quote fair share. Now, our
reporting indicates that this is going
to be a non-binding directive, which
means that PJM doesn't necessarily need
to go along with it. So, it might not
come to fruition, though there is
definitely mounting pressure. John,
expected at the White House today is
Democratic Governor of Pennsylvania,
Josh Shapiro. I actually sat down with
him back in September, and at the time,
he told me he was threatening to pull
his state out of PJM if the grid
operator didn't do more to reign in
costs. I would expect some similar
threats could be on the table today.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. To extend
the conversation, John Lieieber of
Eurasia Group joins us now. John, you
heard it there from Tyler Amarie
mentioned it as well. Governor Shapiro
at the White House. Is this just a new
political reality that both parties have
to confront?
>> Yeah. Uh I mean, I think actually
President Trump's trying to get out
ahead of the curve here. We know
affordability is probably the number one
issue on voters minds for 2026. And this
electricity issue was a factor in some
of the offcycle elections that we saw in
New Jersey and Virginia uh last year.
So, you know, the data centers, it's a
big deal. It's a big part of Trump's
industrial strategy. They want the US to
be the world leader in AI. And to be the
world leader in AI, you need to consume
a lot of energy. And that's going to
become an increasing political problem
for people all over the country. I do
think to your point, it's notable that
Democrats are are willing to play ball
here uh with the administration. This
reflects the power that only the White
House has. And I think that this is
going to be an ongoing theme that we see
throughout the year.
>> Not just Democratic governors willing to
play ball, tech companies, Microsoft,
Brad Smith. We're going to ask utilities
and public commissions to set our rates
high enough to cover electricity costs
for our data centers. John, is this just
another implementation of state
capitalism?
>> Yeah, I think that's exactly uh one way
to think about it. I think Microsoft
knows um that the Trump administration
is their biggest champion. They really
need Trump to get the licenses that they
need to have access to semiconductors. I
mean, the administration has been
extraordinarily aggressive in shaping
how these tech companies uh you know,
sell chips, buy chips, uh have access
around the globe and and they've been
championing them. And I think that
Microsoft sees the writing on the wall
here, which is that this is a growing
political story that they need to get
ahead of, exactly the same as how the
Trump administration's doing this. Um,
and I I think this again, this is going
to be a big theme for the year. Uh, I
think that electricity is a
vulnerability for the president. And by
doing this and by getting their partners
like Microsoft to do this, it's
incredibly savvy way of saying he's
doing something about the problem. Not
to get too in the weaves, but there is a
law from 1935, the federal power act,
which basically separates when it comes
to the grid, the how the states
jurisdictions over it over the federal
government. Are we pretty much just
resetting new rules of engagement
between how the states deal with
electricity?
You know, I'm not familiar with the
rules of uh the electrical grid and how
it works at the state level, but I do
think federal intervention here is
probably appropriate and given that this
is multiple states coming together to uh
drive this new initiative and put this
new electricity on the market and it's
affecting all these tech companies that
are trying to invest everywhere in the
United States. This sets a tone for the
entire country and tells these tech
companies that they're going to need to
be partners in solving this problem. And
because of that, you're probably going
to see more efforts to take advantage of
a diverse source of electricity uh
generation, including probably over time
nuclear power, which had previously
fallen out of favor in the United States
and now that the tech companies need it,
is going to be surging back.
>> John John mentioned all what's going on
in terms of the president's latest
salvos on truth social, the defense
sector, housing, credit card companies.
What do you expect him to deliver at
Davos? Yeah, it's only been uh we're in
the third week of the year and it feels
like we've lived three years so far
given all the stuff that's going on.
Yeah, I think the Davos speech will
probably be a chance for Trump as he
does to air some grievances in front of
a crowd that he probably thinks is
hostile to him, but he still wants to
get in front of. He mentioned housing as
one of the things he's going to talk
about. I think there's going to be other
affordability uh things brought up. One
of the big things on housing is
long-term rates. Um they've been
attempting to use Fanny and Freddy in
order to get long-term mortgage rates
down. Um I think that probably health
care is going to be an issue that is
focus in focus uh in this speech on
affordability. There's still the live
issue of these affordable care act
subsidies that's happening in Congress
right now. And then uh electricity I
think and and energy costs are probably
going to be a big piece of it. Not just
electricity but also energy prices. I
mean oil prices. That's one of the
primary drivers or at least it's the
primary outcome of this Venezuelan
interdiction is that they're putting all
these new barrels of oil on the market
and I think that keeping energy costs
low is going to be a big theme.
>> John, is there a home for people who
support traditional conservative policy
>> in the United States? Uh I mean, no. I I
you you've got the Republican party is
or at least under Trump is massively
interventionist and there are a lot of
Republicans many of whom have only been
elected in the Trump era. I mean over
the half of the House of Representatives
came into office after Trump was already
here and have helped him totally reshape
this party into a much more populist,
much more aggressive, much more
interventionist party that seems to have
no limits to the kind of things that
they're going to do to deliver benefits
for voters. Um, so I I think the era of
small government is really over here and
you know, you're going to see a
government that's on both sides that's
now reacting to the need for voters to
want to see change in their life. And so
I think both parties now are going to be
much much more aggressive in how they
try to do that.
>> How much daylight do you think there'll
be between the two parties on economic
policy by the time we get to 28?
>> Uh, very little. Probably tax policy
will be the big one. There will probably
be more lip service paid to the deficit
from the Republicans. uh they Democrats
will probably more uh support a more uh
larger tax increases in order to bring
down the deficit. I think on trade
you're going to see a lot of
similarities. Labor policy is probably
another one where you see a big
difference but more divergence in the
coming years. So, you know, I think the
parties are going to compete on cultural
differences. Uh immigration will
probably be a big uh a big wedge issue
in the upcoming election. But on
economic policy, you know, these parties
are looking more and more similar to
each other.
>> John, I appreciate it. John Lieber of
your Asia Group. Thank you, sir. Notice
this on a campaign trail. Do you
remember the president would come up
with an idea on the campaign trail and
then Camela Harris would come out with
it next day. Do you remember it was like
that and now you see the same thing this
time around
>> and people didn't think no tax on tips
could get through. So those individuals,
I'm reminding them that actually did
happen. When you're concerned about the
credit card interest rate caps, it might
not be exactly. Remember the president,
Jonathan, you remind us all the time,
anxors the debate to the extreme. So
maybe it's not going to be 10%. But if
he says something, he's going to push
for it. So expect more of this as we
head into November and then 2028. My
mind hasn't even gotten there yet.
>> Stock market's looking right through it.
Earnings are good. Equities are up.
We're up by another third of 1% this
morning on the S&P 500. Up next, we'll
talk about CEO confidence with Dana
Pison at the Conference Board.
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. A cold start to this Friday
morning going into the long weekend here
in New York City. Very, very cold.
Equity futures right now in the S&P 500
positive. Warming up. We're up by a
third of 1% on the NASDAQ by 0.6.
Struggling to put together back-to-back
weekly gains on the S&P. Let's see if we
can change that later on this morning.
It has not been a struggle for the equal
weight. The equal weight S&P 500
positive for six consecutive days and 10
straight sessions of Russell
outperformance versus the S&P 500. Jim
Reed Deutsche Bank pointing out we
haven't seen that since 1990. Russell
futures up by 0.4%. Turn to the bond
market. What a snooze. A welcome snooze
for the Treasury Secretary. This is what
they want to see. Stability in the bond
market. It's what we've got. 41715 on a
10-year. Last Friday we closed at 416
and as this morning we're again at 417.
That's the story of the bond market.
>> But Eric Freriedman's talking about
potential risks this year and going into
the midterm elections too much of fiscal
impulse. You have the bond market really
pushed back especially also what if the
AIPA tariffs are deemed illegal. The
bond market has looked at that and said,
"Look, we're maybe able to potentially
bring the deficit down with more money
coming in." That would not bow well bode
well for this administration.
>> Dead flat treasuries front end longend
really sleepy stuff through the week so
far. Turn to foreign exchange. This is a
quiet rally. The dollar index DXY and
this is Euro dollar showing a bit of
euro strength. But DXY quietly putting
together three consecutive weeks of
strength and if we do that we close this
Friday for another week of strength.
That's the longest run going back to May
of last year. So there you go. Bit of
dollar weakness this morning. Euro
positive to 11619. As we count you down
to the opening bound, let's get you some
morning movers. Some single names. Let's
cross over to Danny for more. Hey Danny.
>> Don, I'm going to show you where the
real strength is in this market and it
is memory chip stocks. These things
continue to fly. Look at the pre-market
session for SanDisk and Micron. Those
shares are up at least 5 a.5%. Santis
this year is up something like 70%.
Micron not as impressive, but still in
the high teens. No specific news, but
it's the continued momentum underscored
by TSMC yesterday that there is so much
demand for AI and that is translating
into demand for memory. But there's a
bad side to that and it is for any of
the hardware providers, hardware makers
that also need memory chips. HP is one
of them. They received a downgrade this
morning from CFR saying one, the company
has very anemic growth and two, its
costs are going to start soaring because
of what's happening in memory chips.
shares are down 2.6%. Rounding things
out this morning with some earnings, we
got the trucker company JB Hunt
reporting yesterday it was a miss across
the board. It is continued weakness for
the freight industry. For one, they have
an over supply and not enough demand.
And you saw in JB Hunt's earnings that
transcontinental shipping, it is down
massively. Basically, the only growth
they saw was in within the United
States, within the US East. So, those
shares falling 5.4% in the pre-market.
John
>> Danny, thanks for the update. Appreciate
it. More from Danny in the next hour. On
our radar this morning, President Donald
Trump pushing tech giants to foot the
bill for new power plants. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the plan
will require companies to sign 15-year
contracts for electricity whether they
use the energy or not. Elsewhere, the US
and Taiwan reaching a trade pact,
slashing tariffs on Taiwanese goods to
15% in exchange. Taiwan investing half a
trillion dollars into American
semiconductor manufacturing and
financing guarantees. And your final
story, a controversial one. Ford
reportedly in talks with China's BYD
about supplying batteries for hybrid
vehicles and its overseas factories.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
those hybrids would be exported
worldwide. A move that's already
sparking political backlash in DC.
>> From the White House, from Peter Navaro,
he was quick on X to talk about saying
Ford wants to simultaneously prop up a
Chinese competitor supply chain and make
it more vulnerable to that same supply
chain extortion. what could go wrong
here? Those are the words from Peter
Navaro. Ford is looking at this like,
look, we already use BYD batteries when
it comes to our vehicles in China. And I
remember the commodity guys years ago
said to me, you're too focused, Amory,
on the raw materials. Think about what
China's long-term play is. They are the
only ones that have the raw materials
and the processing power, 80, 90% of the
market to actually make that battery. At
some point, China is going to say, "You
want electric vehicles? Buy our cars."
That's the entire long-term play. And
you can see Beijing being absolutely
propped up by this. And this could be
the baby steps going towards that
direction.
>> There's a big negotiation coming up,
USMCA. And I wonder Amarie the direction
of travel here because really when you
think about USMCA the industry most
exposed to that just one auto
manufacturers Ford GM Stalantis it's
going to be a big feature of the
conversation through the next year
>> especially as the prime minister of
Canada Mark Carney this morning to post
a photo on Twitter of him and Xi Jinping
talks about this new strategic
partnership new world order with China
>> to use the prime minister's exact
precise language. Yeah. And a new
strategic partnership when it comes to
trade and other things when it comes to
China. Do you see countries that are
close to the United States that should
be working more interlin with the United
States actually looking to maybe go to
China because it's cheaper products and
right now the rhetoric coming out of
Washington isn't helpful for them.
>> Ford this morning in the pre-market
positive by a tenth of 1%. Let's turn
back to markets. Earning season off to a
strong start as investors position for
the year ahead. Dana Peterson and the
team at the conference board releasing
their 2026 seuite survey identifying the
top issues keeping CEOs up at night.
Dana joined us now more. Dana, welcome
to the program. Share what you found.
Number one last year had to have been
tariffs and we moved on from that pretty
quickly. Is it still tariffs or have
things changed?
>> The new word is uncertainty. businesses
are just not sure certainly about
tariffs but also geopolitics regulation
and many of them see AI as a very
disruptive force either for good or for
bad and so with all those things uh CEOs
are just very worried and they are
trying to figure out ways to kind of cut
through the fog so that they can remain
profitable.
>> Dana by definition the future is always
uncertain. What is unique about this and
are they experiencing a form of
paralysis or are they actually making
decisions and moving forward?
>> Well, if you go back to 2024, there was
a lot of excitement. Um, businesses were
anticipating deregulation. Uh, they were
anticipating lower taxes in the US. Um,
however, all of last year was just
really wild in terms of changes in
policy. Um though you did have tax cuts
and also acceleration of depreciation
um for writing that off. You also had uh
recisions in industrial policies and
many uh industries were very much
dependent on that you know especially
those who are looking to onshore and now
that money is gone. And so coming into
this year, you you have this kind of
doubling down in geopolitical issues. Um
not only linked to trade but also linked
to energy and as mentioned earlier,
affordability is a huge issue for many
uh consumers in the US. And also
businesses want certainty and so we are
seeing businesses just kind of stuck
waiting around to see where things fall
and that certainly is a drag on the
economy. So, what do they do with this
information, Dana? This is how they
feel. They're concerned about
geopolitics, governance, market
dynamics. If you're a corporate
executive, how do you weather 2026?
>> Well, the big theme is business plan
changes. That could mean small tweaks,
um, just kind of editing things, or it
could just mean ripping up the old plan
and just starting a new. And many
companies are realizing that they need
to pivot. there are these major
structural and social geopolitical
changes that they have to wade through
and they see uh sitting down and making
sure their financials are sound, their
governance and risk apparat apparatuses
are sound um but also that they're
investing in their people, they're
investing in their operations, they're
investing in new areas um uh very much
investing in customer service and they
also see AI and training their people as
key elements of this transformation.
>> Do they also think that AI not just
could train their people but also mean
that they could reduce their workforce?
>> Well, I think it really depends on the
industry. So certainly the tech sector
is looking at uh AI as a form of
automation and also cost savings by
having fewer people uh doing things that
computers can do. But there are many
other sectors that actually need human
beings like health care, construction.
Um and so I think it's for many
businesses it's okay how do we use AI to
um you know facilitate productivity and
growth but you still have that people
element and indeed CEOs are looking very
much to invest in their own people to
make sure they are ready to deploy AI.
Dana, just to build on that, when you
look at seuite confidence, how does it
compare to say consumer confidence?
>> Well, consumer confidence according to
our measure has been slipping over the
last year. Consumers are not very uh
pleased with the current situation. Uh
certainly prices are still elevated.
They're still very uncertain about
what's going to happen. They're worried
about future job prospects as well as
their own incomes and and finances. So
all of those things are very
disconcerting for consumers. Um the key
is does that show up in spending? And we
do see that uh consumers are spending
more on necessary goods and services
like food, utilities, housing, and even
if they want to go out and have fun,
they're they're streaming instead of
going to the movies, which is much more
expensive. So consumers still are
spending, they're just shifting their
priorities in terms of what they are
buying.
>> Dana, always appreciate catching up with
you. Thanks for sharing the study with
us. Dana Peterson there at the
conference board on consumer confidence
and sea sweetite confidence into 26.
>> How she ended there and what consumers
are having to shift some of their
priorities, spending more on food,
spending more maybe streaming because
you can't afford to go out to the movie
theater. I wonder if the White House
read this report as well because they're
also going after things like she
mentioned utilities. This is all in the
playbook of these populist uh rhetoric
and these populist ideas we've heard
from this administration, especially
ahead of November. This is what
consumers care about.
>> They don't need to read this. They just
need to look at the polls and you can
see it pretty clearly into the midterms.
Equity futures on the S&P positive by a
third of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Vonnie Quinn for
more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Trump
accepting Venezuela and opposition
leader Maria Karina Machado's Nobel
Peace Prize medal, saying in a post on
Truth Social. "It's a great honor,"
Machado says she handed it to Trump
during their White House meeting as a
recognition of his unique commitment to
Venezuela's freedom.
JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond saying
there's quote absolutely positively no
chance he would take the Fed chair job.
Speaking to Carile's David Rubenstein,
Diamond saying he would take the call if
considered for Treasury Secretary.
Diamond also expressing concerns that
chipping away at Fed independence could
lead to higher inflation and interest
rates over time.
TSMC shares trading higher in the
pre-market after hitting a record
yesterday following its report of a huge
fourth quarter profit. CFO Wendel Huang
speaking to Bloomberg about the
company's future. In the next three
years, the total kax is going to be
significantly higher than the number in
the past three years. So that is the
evidence of our strong conviction uh in
the AI mega trend.
>> Wendell also saying TSMC will try to
accelerate the transfer of its advanced
chipm expertise to the US in the future.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, big banks selling a high bar.
Their valuations today are very rich. So
the high bar that's out there, they they
met it, but they didn't greatly exceed
it like they were doing all of last
year.
>> That conversation up next with Erica
Nagarian of UPS live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Equity
futures this morning positive by a
quarter of 1% on the S&P 500 looking to
secure another weekly gain on the S&P
500. Just short of that as things stand
at the close on Thursday. Short of
nothing right now on the equal weight.
The S&P 500 equal weight at alltime
highs at the close on Thursday. Six day
winning streak. The broadening gap
continues. The Russell, the small caps
keeps rallying and outperforming the S&P
500 for 10 straight days. The Russell
this morning up by a third of 1% in the
bond market really sleepy. We've talked
about that as a feature of the year so
far. The 2-year in the 350s to end this
week like it was just last week 35650 at
the front end at the moment and just a
chorus of Fed officials over the last
week basically saying the same thing.
Policy's in a good place. That was Mary
Daly. Raphael Bostic saying inflation's
too high. Gby saying something similar.
got to get it back to 2%. You're in the
room with John Williams, the New York
Fed president. Monetary policy is well
positioned.
>> No urgency to move one way or the other.
No urgency for cuts. Look, they just
came on the heels of three meetings
where they cut interest rates. And right
now, the data isn't flashing a warning
that they should be cutting even more. I
think that unemployment rate, that's
when JP Morgan decided to change their
view. 4.4% on the unemployment rate.
Nothing scary right now. So what they're
calling for is no rate cuts for 2026 and
a hike in 2027.
>> The data is pretty decent. The earnings
are too under Savannah this morning. Big
banks setting a high bar.
We think the play for 2026 is financial.
So we're still there. You look at the
actual numbers at the end of 2025. The
upgrade or the increases in estimates
were driven by investment banking
trading. The stocks have had a very good
year in 2025 and their valuations today
are very rich. So the high bar that's
out there, they they met it, but they
didn't greatly exceed it like they were
doing all of last year.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Wall
Street's biggest banks reporting a
record 134 billion in trading revenue
and a major upswing in deal breaking to
start the year. Joining us now is Erica
Njaron of UBS. Erica, welcome to the
program. strong momentum to close out
last year into this year, but a real
performance gap opening up this week
between the likes of a JP Morgan down
and a Goldman Sachs up. Erica, what
explains to that?
>> So, I think it's pretty simple, right?
Um, valuation aside, what the market is
telling us is really that they care more
about the pure play exposure to capital
markets than they do about valuation.
Because if you look at the likes of
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs on an
earnings basis, they're not cheaper at
all relative to the big money centers
like JP Morgan. However, it's a little
bit more of a straightforward story
rather than the money centers where you
have to grapple with, you know, interest
income trends relative to the curve. You
have to grapple with the credit card
rate cap uh headlines. And so what the
market is saying is, wow, we just heard
David Solomon say that advisory revenues
in 2026 could be better than 2021 in the
base case. So why not own cap markets?
And by the way, given Morgan Stanley's
results, why not own wealth stocks?
>> Erica, do you think that's the play for
26? Those trends to continue.
>> Look, I think if you already own Goldman
Morgan and the Money Center banks, why
would you sell them? the momentum is
still there in terms of EPS revisions,
but what we've been saying is as we
think about new money, investments in
banks. Look, it it's going to be a
little bit of a tougher climb. So, think
about what the next sort of leg is in
terms of EPS revisions. It might be more
like Main Street rather than Wall
Street. You know, small to medium um
sized enterprises finally finally
expanding. And what I would say is I
would look to the regional banks.
Additionally, given some of the rate cap
headlines, you know, we would also look
into some of these beat up consumer
finance names that probably didn't
deserve to be as beat up as they've
been. Um, like Capital One, for example.
>> Erica, can we talk about the credit card
cap interest rate, the probability you
and your team think of that or maybe the
competition bill getting through
Congress?
>> Uh, yeah, absolutely. We think it's low
probability extreme outcome, right? And
I think that's how the market sort of
priced it in on the Monday, the first
trading day after that social media post
from the president. Look, I mean, you
guys um I I I'm sure you guys pay off
your bills every every month. Look at
the back of your card. Your APR looks
not is nowhere close to 10%. Right? And
so when you do a 10% cap, even if it's
just for a year, of course it's going to
impact lower income Americans, but it's
also going to impact sort of the middle,
right? Think about sort of someone
that's making 100,000 and is a prime,
you know, customer, but the economics
just don't work at a 10% rate. And so I
think that especially in a year where
you know consumer strength,
affordability is the buzzword, taking
away liquidity line from the US consumer
is not the move ahead of midterms.
>> If we were to see some action though
when it comes to this in Washington, who
out of the big banks is best to weather
that storm?
>> I mean I I it's it's always the same
answer, right? JP Morgan, even though
they're
even though they're huge in card, if you
run the numbers, they're huge in
everything else and they're so good at
everything else that it's like, you
know, it doesn't impact them as much,
you know?
>> Even if the CEO keeps talking,
>> what's that?
>> Even if the CEO keeps talking, meddling
in Washington,
>> look, Jaime's going to Jamie, right? And
I, you know, he's seen as the leader of
the industry and the spokesperson for
the industry. So, you know, if he needs
to agitate a little, you know, I think
that's what the industry needs in terms
of, you know, a mouthpiece and a
representative of the industry. But
look, at the end of the day, you know,
it might be, you know, a a nick to JP
Morgan's earnings, but, you know, having
such action would be a an extreme impact
to the US consumer. Erica, why do we
always walk away from earning season
with JP Morgan talking about Jamie
Diamond and not the results themselves?
Is there anything in the results that
stood out for you?
>> Look, yeah, of course. Look, I think the
reason JP Morgan was off the day it
reported is that, you know, investors
were used to be, you know, huge like a a
big beat and a big raise kind of um
number and they kind of previewed what
they were expecting for 2026 in October
and December of 2025. So, there's no
really big surprises and at that
valuation, everybody sort of expects JP
Morgan to, you know, continue to leap
over the high bar they set for
themselves. But look, at the end of the
day, I think the story is the same for
JP Morgan. They lay out a target. The
macro environment is pretty um you know,
conducive for earning a lot of money and
they're going to leap over it, right? So
um I think particularly in January and
particularly given the volatility um in
geopolitics and and lo in national
policy, we did need to need to hear from
Jamie. That's why Jonathan and Anmarie,
what he says sometimes is even more
important than what the numbers say.
>> True. I I give you that. I give you
that. I just get frustrated sometimes.
Not with you, Erica, of course, just
with the general media environment that
it's always about Jamie and whatever
he's got to say on any given issue and
it's never about the results themselves.
Amory
>> and it's about issues that actually he
doesn't have a sometimes serious
portfolio on. It's always about like
what do you think of Ukraine, you know,
and it's something
>> tell me about foreign policy.
>> Oh, right. and they just came out with
these numbers and people want to know
about China or key from him.
>> Erica, as you say though, there is this
faith in their ability at JP Morgan to
hop over the hurdle to ultimately
whatever they put up they'll beat. Do
you have that same faith in Bank of
America off the back of the investor day
delivered at the end of last year? Do
you have that same faith?
>> Uh, no.
Look, I think um the valuation is
definitely um unchallenging at Bank of
America and um you know the engine is
there but you know there is a reason why
you know self-sighted analysts like me
get attracted to devaluation and then
the market gets a little bit you know
disappointed. it's just they don't
execute as well as JP Morgan. And so,
you know, at the end of the day, I think
um, you know, the company really needs
to take advantage of the first quarter,
you know, conference season and smooth
out and be very clear about the messages
that they meant to convey during
investor day, which is that they're
poised to grow revenue and they're going
to, you know, make sure that falls
mostly to the bottom line and they're
going to control expenses relative to
the revenue opportunity. I think the
issue here is sort of the opposite of of
JP Morgan sometimes in that, you know,
the the the communication is perhaps not
as precise. It's not as clear and the
investor base gets frustrated. So, you
know, it's almost the opposite, right?
If you just look at the numbers and
don't listen to the call, you might
actually come away with a better
conclusion in how the stock trades,
right? Um whereas everybody to Anmar's
point like listens to the JP Morgan call
and just ignores the press release and
the supplement. And so you know I think
Bank of America has you know big shoes
to fill if it wants to be anywhere near
close to its closest peer JP Morgan.
>> Erica appreciate your take as always.
Thanks for joining us today. Erica Njarn
there of UBS on the likes of JP Morgan
at Bank of America. The winner of the
week though Morgan Stanley Goldman
Sachs. Goldman Sachs positive for eight
consecutive weeks. The running
continues.
>> They had unbelievable numbers when it
comes to Goldman Sachs. Some of these
fees, when it comes to deal making, when
it comes to the equities trading
division and Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley and and I hear and I hear Erica,
she thinks that JP Morgan, even if
something was done with credit cards,
would be the best to withstand the
storm. But Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs actually are more insulated from
that story if that legislation were to
pass down in Washington.
>> Equity futures this morning rolling over
just a touch. We're still positive by
0.2%. And in the next hour, we'll catch
up with Steven Parker of JP Morgan
Private Bank, Clayton Seagull of CSIS,
Joel Kerry Hall of Bank of America, and
Vishel Kandra of Morgan Standing
Investment Management. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance just around
the corner.
The economy overall doing strong, but
>> if you look at the underlying trends in
the US right now, you're not seeing much
inflationary pressure.
>> I am still concerned that this is a
labor market that is gradually
weakening.
>> We have a pretty good sense of where the
economy is heading.
>> We're about to see growth in higher.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
When I first moved here, I used to say,
"Why do you need a holiday this early in
the year? Just had Christmas and New
Year. Why do you need a holiday? Two
weeks into 26. I need a week, never mind
a long weekend.
>> You got to rec recover." Whether it's
from the holidays or just from the
onslaught of policies coming out of
Washington. What was it just only a week
and a half ago was the capturing of
Maduro?
>> Yeah, that feels like a lifetime ago. A
decade ago. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning to
you all from our audience worldwide. The
second down of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now. Your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500 up
by a tenth of 1%. The Nasdaq up by 0.5.
What a run for the Russell up so far
this year by close to 8% up again this
morning by 210 of 1%. Long weekend
coming up. Looking ahead to next week,
the big ones on Wednesday. The president
of the United States, Donald Trump,
addressing the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland. So this is the White
House thinking that the World Economic
Forum is filled with a lot of globalist
elitist individuals and yet the
president is going to come there
probably going to go after a few
individuals in the audience that don't
always acquies to him or don't always
line up on his policies but he's going
to have a message for Americans back
home because we know that he's going to
talk about housing today in the Oval
Office. He's going to talk about the
fact that electricity prices are too
high for consumers. So the tech
companies needs to subsidize those
electricity prices. And we know that
potentially he's going to talk about
geopolitics and defense and the fact
that the administration wants to see the
defense sector really shore up more in
the United States and not give money
back to shareholders.
>> This is not just a Republican position,
it's a Democrat position as well. And
the first thing you pointed out earlier
on this morning is he'll be alongside
the Democratic governor Josh Shapiro of
Pennsylvania
>> of a swing state, an individual that
might be running for the presidency of
2028. So he's not just lining up with I
could see him lining up with Glenn
Yncan, especially given the fact that
there's a huge concentration of data
centers in Virginia, but he's going to
be joined by Josh Shapiro. Josh Shapiro
was almost the vice presidential
candidate to Kla Harris. So, we have
seen the president really go across the
line when it comes to wanting to work
with Democrats because the policies are
populist. In this week alone, he's not
just standing next to Josh Shapiro. He
called Elizabeth Warren. He is texting
with Zora Mandani, a Democratic
socialist in New York. You have to
think, is he calling French Hill? Is he
calling individuals that are more the
conservative wing when it comes to
fiscal conservatives in Congress? I
don't think so.
>> Corporate America has got to be worried
when you look down to Washington and
realize this is not just a single party
issue. This is a bipartisan push now
that's going to cross tech, home
builders, defense companies, the lot.
We've gone after so many different
things. Corporate pay, stock buybacks,
investing in single family homes. The
list is getting longer and longer and
it's only January 16th.
>> And taking outright equity stakes in
some of these companies. These are
policies that individuals like Bernie
Sanders would run on. Bernie Sanders
literally wrote the bill for a 10%
interest rate cap with Josh Holly and
that got introduced last year. So these
are policies that you're right, if
you're the seauite, they're not going
anywhere anytime soon. And you brought
up a great point. I'm so focused on the
midterm election because that's this
year. That's here and now. That's my
everyday. 2028,
what policies are going to be different?
Maybe just some social policies. Yeah,
and they're the most divisive ones at
the moment for sure. And if we turn the
volume up on those into 28, it's going
to be an interesting two years ahead of
us. Egary futures right now in the S&P
500 positive by 210 of 1%. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Steven
Parker of JP Morgan as tech revives a
record rally. Clay Seagull of CSIS with
oil steady as Iran tensions call and
Jill Kerry Hall of Bank of America as
the Russell 2000 outperforms the S&P 500
for a 10th consecutive day. We begin
this hour with stocks near alltime high.
Steven Parker of JP Morgan with an S&P
bullcase of 8,200 by year end writing AI
remains the defining force in markets.
The momentum is broadening beyond
hyperscalers and semiconductors into
utility software and infrastructure.
Steven joins us now for more. Stephen,
good morning.
>> Morning. Good to be here.
>> We've certainly seen this rally broaden
out. Equal weight, record highs, small
caps. We've talked about that run
repeatedly throughout this morning. Is
that just an early year rotation that
loses steam or something you want to get
behind for the year ahead? No, we
actually think it has legs in the year
ahead. Um, you know, last year as we
talked about was all about AI and
technology, whether it was the economic
growth, the capital spending, the
earnings growth. This year, we think
it's a a story about broadening. Um, we
think that there is a cyclical recovery
in the cards. We see that because we
think labor markets will continue to to
stabilize and improve. You have easy
monetary policy and tailwinds from
fiscal policy. And I think that sets you
up for a broadening of of the growth
story. Is it a story that demands rate
cuts or is it the fact that we don't get
rate hikes and good growth and that's
good enough?
>> Yeah, it's it's more the latter. I mean
our our base case is we think that we
get one additional cut uh in the course
of this year um which is a little bit
lower than than what markets are pricing
right now and that's based on the idea
that we think that growth is going to
improve. Um inflation remains a little
bit sticky but but moves in the right
direction and so it's not predicated on
rate cuts
>> within tech. Can we just get into the
pieces that are working and the pieces
that aren't? I can pick out a single
name. I know you can't speak to it, but
Microsoft has really underperformed.
It's lagged. We haven't seen that pickup
in that stock at all. Other software
names you can identify, too. What do you
think's going on within technology
stocks at the moment?
>> Yeah, one of the biggest challenges that
we've seen within the tech space and
there was a lot of dispersion in terms
of performance last year and continuing
into this year. Uh, I think the software
sector in particular is one where
markets are pricing in some questions
about what the impact of AI is going to
look like for a lot of these software
names. Um, it's why we've been focused
more on some of the the hyperscalers,
the semiconductors as the place that we
would play. Ultimately though, it's
going to be the software companies, both
public and private, that are going to be
building the applications on top of this
AI infrastructure. And we think over the
coming years, that's going to be a key
theme for our clients and our
portfolios.
>> You have one line in your note that
really stood out to me. While politics
should not derail your plan, we must
also recognize that policy can have a
meaningful effect on fundamental drivers
of growth and inflation. You're talking
about these AI players. Companies like
Microsoft are saying they are going to
basically subsidize consumers energy.
Does that chip away at their margins?
>> Potentially, but I think not enough to
stall the long-term growth prospect. You
know, in our 2026 outlook, we talked
about three themes that we think are
going to drive markets in the coming
years. We talked about AI, we talked
about inflation, and we talked about
this idea of increasing global
fragmentation. That's a little bit of
what we're continuing to see play out in
markets. And and one of the key themes
that we're talking about for 2026 is
this idea of national champions and
strategic industries. Um we've seen it
around the world. Places like Europe are
making a commitment to invest in their
security and defense industries. And
we're starting to see it here in the US
and we think that that commitment is
real. We think that the fiscal spending
is going to continue to pick up and that
those strategic industries are going to
be beneficiaries of a lot of spending.
That's an investable opportunity. You
want to invest in companies that the US
government might be taking equity stakes
in.
>> We want to invest in industries that we
think the US government is going to
consider strategically important. So
think about things like industrials,
utilities, companies related to the AI
power story. We think there's going to
be a massive amount of investment in
those companies, both public and
private. And therefore, you like there's
a there's a fundamental story there.
>> Long-term though, do these companies do
well? Doesn't this overall mean less
competition? I think, you know, we we we
want to be careful about swinging too
far away from you, the free markets that
that we've enjoyed and benefited from
for so long. But I think there's also a
recognition that in that an increasingly
fragmented world, there are certain
parts of the economy and the market that
are just so strategically important, we
can't afford to outsource things like
rare earth metals. And we're seeing that
recommmitment to investment here in the
US. And we don't think that's
necessarily um you know a a headwind to
long-term growth and performance.
>> Listening to you Stephen just tracking
what the governments are doing. I
understand it. I think we all do. They
want to invest where the perceived
constraints are going to be in the
future. It sounds like you want to be
alongside them potentially. Where are
the so-called perceived overcapacity
issues starting to already come up that
are bumping up against those
constraints? Where don't you want to be
on this AI trade? You know, I I think
the places that we are more conservative
around in the AI space, we are more
conservative around the energy story.
Um, you know, you talk about over
capacity. Uh, there's a lot of focus on
power and the the need for energy to
power the these data centers. We do
think when you look, for example, at the
price of oil, that's going to remain
under pressure. There's huge amounts of
over supply in the market already. If
Venezuela begins to come back online,
you know, that's potentially another
boost to to supply. And so energy is one
of those places that some may consider a
strategically important uh um
opportunity part of the AI story but not
necessarily one that we see as as
compelling from an investment
perspective.
>> Frank this morning 6457 is that price a
beneficiary to say the consumer trade at
the moment. If you're short energy are
you long discretionary?
>> We do like discretionary although you
have to remember discretionary is a very
diverse set of companies. Um overall,
one of the things that's important, you
do have lower energy prices. You also
have the tailwinds coming from one big
beautiful bill, the fiscal stimulus, tax
refunds that are coming. And so part of
this broadening cyclical story is a
boost to the consumer, which should be
reinforced by that labor market
stabilization that we also expect.
>> So when you think of the White House
pushing out a lot of this affordability
campaign, the president still talks
about a tariff dividend, although I
don't think we're going to get it.
Consumer discretion age will do well.
what else could do well in what this
affordability push.
>> You know, I think the other thing that
we're focused on as part of this, you
know, we tax refunds give kind of the
the big headlines around this fiscal
policy, but a lot of it also has to do
with accelerated depreciation. And one
of the things that we think is going to
be a theme for this year is this ramp up
in broader cyclical capex outside of
just the AI story, which was the thing
last year. And so when we think about
industrials, when we think about the
buildout of infrastructure, that's
another potential fiscal beneficiary
that we think is is compelling.
>> What about housing? Because there's a
lot of emphasis on that right now by the
president.
>> Yeah, I mean housing is going to be one,
you know, there's a question this year,
particularly leading into midterms, how
do you separate, you know, sort of the
the discourse versus what's actually
going to happen? We expect that there's
going to be lots of proposals, lots of
headlines about potential policy. How
much of that actually gets implemented
remains a question and historically
that's been the case around elections.
So we're we tend to be remiss to lean
too much into specific policy actions
and what it might mean for the housing
sector. There is a long-term structural
problem there. There is a supply demand
imbalance that needs to be addressed.
Whether that's going to be something
that plays out in the coming months, I'm
a bit more skeptical.
>> Stephen, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Steven Parker there of JP
Morgan Private Bank. If you're just
joining us, equities this morning
positive by 0.2%. 2% on the S&P 500 with
an update on stories worldwide. Let's
check base touch check up with
Bloomberg's Vonyie Quinn for more. Hey
Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Ukrainian President
Vladimir Zalinski speaking in Ke today
saying that negotiators are heading to
the United States to effort new security
guarantees. President Zilinski says he
hopes to finalize a deal soon, possibly
even as early as next week at the World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland,
where US President Donald Trump is set
to speak.
Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney is
in China meeting with President
Xiinping. It's the first visit by a
Canadian leader in eight years. Carney
has been seeking to rebuild relations
with Beijing and reduce Canada's
reliance on the US after President
Donald Trump imposed sweeping tariffs.
The two countries reaching a
wide-ranging agreement to lower trade
barriers.
Netflix winning global rights to stream
Sony's films after they complete their
run in theaters and on pay-per-view. The
deal expands an agreement first struck
in 2021. The company saying Sony
Pictures will start appearing on Netflix
this year as individual territory rights
become available. That is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program keeping one
eye on Iran.
>> The president and his team have
communicated to the Iranian regime that
the K if the killing continues there
will be grave consequences. So the
president and his team are closely
monitoring this situation. That's up
next with Clay Seagull of CSIS live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
2 hours and 15 minutes away from the
opening power with equity futures
positive here by 0.2%. 2% on the S&P
500, up by 0.5 on the NASDAQ on the
Russell. What a week again for the
Russell 2000. A small caps higher by
0.3%.
Under surveillance this morning, keeping
one eye on Iran.
>> The president and his team have
communicated to the Iranian regime that
the kill if the killing continues there
will be grave consequences. And the
president received a message as he
revealed to all of you and the whole
world yesterday um that the killing and
the executions will stop. And the
president understands today that 800 uh
executions that were scheduled and
supposed to take place uh yesterday were
halted. Uh and so the president and his
team are closely monitoring this
situation.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
According to reports, the White House
moving a carrier strike group to the
Middle East. President Trump saying
he'll hold off on attacking Iran after a
crackdown on protest in the country.
Limick's Tyler Kendall joins us now for
the latest. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, reports
of this carrier strike group moving to
the region comes on the heels of the
Wall Street Journal reporting that
President Trump has asked for the
necessary military assets to be in place
should he order a large-scale strike.
Yet, that report goes on to say that
advisers have cautioned the president
that a bigger attack is unlikely to
cause the Iranian regime to fall.
Bloomberg economics say that the
presence of a carrier strike group is
likely a signaling tool. It wouldn't be
needed if the US were to pursue more
tailored strikes or target leadership
options we know are on the table. Which
is why our analysts are calling this all
part of strategic ambiguity. And adding
to that ambiguity perhaps is that we
have seen a shift in tone from President
Trump over the past week, appearing to
narrow the possibility that an attack is
imminent after just earlier in the week
he had urged Iranians to continue
protesting and pledged that help was on
the way. But according to the president,
he has received assurances that the
killing is stopping. And as you heard
the White House press secretary outline
there, a top Iranian official has
pledged that they are not going to carry
out planned executions. But John, we
have really seen the death toll surge in
Iran over the past 7 days. According to
statistics cited by Bloomberg News from
the Iran Human Rights Group, they are
estimating that at least 3,400
protesters have died in what is
considered to be the deadliest crackdown
in the country in decades. Absolutely
horrific when it looks like that
blackout continues. Tyler, we've also
seen a lot of diplomacy. The MSAD
directors in Washington DC according to
Axios to meet with Steve Wickoff. You
have Senator Lindsey Graham going over
to Israel. Where is Congress in all of
this? And can you give us a little bit
of insight on some of these back channel
diplomatic dealings?
>> Well, it is also so interesting, Ann
Marie, because of course, President
Trump earlier this week said that he was
cancelling all meetings between US and
Iranian officials, but we know that
there is this diplomacy going forward as
previous White House officials have
suggested that that is always going to
be an option on the table. Now, it
depends who you talk to on Capitol Hill,
but we have definitely heard from some
perhaps more hawkish members. As you
mentioned, Senator Lindsey Graham, who
yesterday told reporters that he would
prefer a bigger strike compared to
targeted strikes and to take this
opportunity to capitalize on what has
been this perhaps more uh
interventionist sense from the Trump
administration on the heels of what
happened last week in Venezuela with the
capture of Nicholas Maduro and also
President Trump's ramped up rhetoric
when it comes to Greenland. It feels
like we are talking about all of these
different countries and uh possibilities
in almost the same breath this week in
terms of what the White House is going
to do. It is clear though that no matter
what President Trump does pursue, it
appears that he does have the backing of
Republicans on Capitol Hill because An
Marie earlier this week we did see
Republicans walk back their support of a
war powers resolution that would have
curbed the president's authority when it
comes to Venezuela. Of course, Iran is a
very different story, but it just goes
to say that he has been courting their
support on the hill for military
intervention going forward.
>> Tyler, thank you. Thanks for catching up
with us. Tyler Kendall there for the
latest in Washington. Klay Seagull joins
us now, senior fellow for energy
security at CSIS. Clay, welcome to the
program. Taken together, the
developments in Venezuela, the potential
for developments in Iran. Is this energy
positive or energy negative?
>> Hey, good morning, John. Well, it seems
clear that there is more oil supply that
is potentially coming into risk of
disruption when we think about uh how
the Trump administration is approaching
some of these challenges around the
world. I think that the oil market
conventional wisdom has it right when it
comes to Venezuela. The next big
strategic move for oil in Venezuela is
to have more supply in coming years. And
obviously that's a moderating effect on
oil prices uh globally. In Iran though,
it's way too early to say what the next
move is likely to be. And I see actually
a high likelihood for at least some
disruption of its 1.5 million barrels
per day of exports to global markets.
>> What can that mean for the Brent price
if we were to get serious disruptions
because of what is going on in the
Middle East?
>> Hey, Amarie. Well, it means that there's
definitely upside uh potential for Brent
and I think that the market will be
looking as always to discount uh both
the volume, the size of the potential
disruption and its duration. And we have
to keep in mind that uh as we start the
new year, oil market fundamentals
globally look pretty ample. They look
well supplied. Some would say even a bit
loose. And so we are expecting an
overhang of of supply relative to demand
at least for the first quarter. And so
that does provide a bit more cushion as
does uh OPEC plus's policy of for the
most uh part of last year adding some
supply to world market. And so we have
adequate cushions for the time being. I
think that you started to see a little
bit of risk premium take its way back
into the market. So, we got into the 60s
for Brent, but kind of unwound as it
looked like maybe the White House and
Washington were taking pause either to
allow time for uh more resources to make
their way into the region to give the
president more options or potentially
more thinking on the strategic level.
What military options really accomplish
US interests when it comes to supporting
the populace in Iran?
>> Clay, how important is that energy
cushion to the United States in these
conversations at the Oval Office,
whether or not they decide to take a
strike on Iran?
Well, I think it has to be important.
Naturally, we are entering campaign
season in the United States and eyes in
Washington are starting to turn toward
uh election season. So, gasoline fuel
prices and overall macroeconomic
performance will be foremost on on
leaders minds and politicians minds. So,
no one's looking for a fuel price spike
into 2026. Uh but I do think that the
overall ample supply of demand of supply
relative to demand in the oil market
gives a degree of cushion and probably
allows policy makers to think about
military options and other strategic
options in a different way than we would
if we were tighter. If you can imagine
all the way back to 2022 after the
Russian invasion of Ukraine, we had a
very significant spike thinking that
Russian supplies could exit the market
altogether. At the end of the day, they
weren't removed from the market. They
were just reshuffled. But that those
Russian supplies are still a target of
policy makers. You were just mentioning
Senator Graham in uh in the colleagues
last piece. You know, he and his partner
Senator Blumenthal have been big
advocates of cracking down on Putin's
war chest, which comes largely through
those oil revenues. And so these are
some of the dynamics that are shaping
leadership's views about how to handle
these flash points around the world.
Given these flash points and disruptions
we could see not just from Iran, but a
great point, what's going on in Russia,
can we get close to the president's
target of $50 a barrel?
Well, that's going to be tricky. And I
think that one of the important lessons
that was learned from the first year of
the administration is there's limited
effect from policy initiatives on
materially increasing supply. Last year
was about the US oil patch. So we
started the administration with all the
talking points that you all know. Drill
baby drill, unleashing resources. To be
sure, there are policy moves that can
improve margins for ENTP sector uh
operators. But at the end of the day,
it's not really up to politicians to
determine how much is invested in
increasing supply. It's about market
sentiment and it's about capital market
decision-m and it's about those
investors because investors are not as
concerned about energy dominance. They
want energy dividends. And if the the
break even price of a new well in the
United States is $65 a barrel, then
targeting toward 50 is going to cause a
lot of concern among those producers.
And they're probably going to pull back
some of that oil field activity. And I
think the same goes for Venezuela. It's
a similar concern that if you don't have
those uh break even prices to be
profitable in the coming years, it makes
the investment case pretty challenging.
>> Clayton, I want to talk about another
energy producer and it's not Venezuela
or Iran. It's Canada. Going into last
year, I just had in mind this idea that
we'd have this North American energy
powerhouse. At the time, I was thinking
maybe we'd end up with a conservative
leader in Canada. Then things changed
really quickly with a relationship
between the US and Canada. Clay, this
year, this week, you've had Canada
basically align themselves to some
extent with China. Clay, what's going to
happen to Canadian energy?
Well, I think that a lot of attention
has to be paid to the emerging dynamic
between uh Ottawa and Washington. And if
you think back even less than a year
when we were talking about uh Liberation
Day and other very aggressive tariff
programs, it was conceivable that we
were going to have a real rupture in the
strong historic energy relationship
between Canada and the United States.
So, our biggest supply of crude imports,
it's not the Middle East, it's not other
parts of the globe with these flash
points. It's Canada, right? With more
than three million barrels a day,
adequately supplying those refineries in
the Midwestern United States that are
perfectly matched to Canada's type of
crude oil. And so, a lot for prices uh
depends on whether or not we're able to
keep right now those um supplies from
Canada are kind of ringing fenced and
off limits for tariffs, everything under
the UCMA. Um but we'll see whether the
relationship between the Trump
administration and various uh actors
around the world including Canada can
remain positive enough for energy to
kind of stay out of the crosshairs.
>> Clay, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Clay Seagull there of CSIS. On that
last point on Canada, the recipes there,
all the ingredients for a great
relationship and it just feels like it's
still falling apart
>> and the about face from Canada when it
comes to what's going on with China,
this new strategic partnership. Remember
the previous administration with
Trudeau? It was all-time low between
Beijing and Ottawa when the extradition
spat regarding that Huawei executive.
This is really feels like very new for
these two countries.
>> It's an important development north of
the border. That's for sure. Up next on
the program, Jill Kerry Hall of Bank of
America as small caps outperform to
start the year. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Just about in the red for the week so
far. Looking to change that at the open
and bal equity futures positive here by
a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. Up by 0.5
on the NASDAQ and the Russell doing
okay. Up a quarter of 1%. That's how
stocks are set up. Two hours away from
the opening bow. Let's get you some
morning movers. Danny has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. It still is those memory chip
stocks that are dominating in this
pre-market trade. Uh Micron easily the
best performer in the S&P 500 in the
pre-market up 5 and a.5% SanDisk up
5.4%.
It is this rally been ignited by the
shortage of memory chip stocks and the
huge premium the cost that they are able
to command. By the way, one of the board
members of Micron also just put in a
filing buying millions and millions
worth of the shares also helping things
out here. Uh, Micron's up something like
220% over the past year. It's not just
memory chip stocks. It's the other AI
related equities that are doing well
this morning, too. The chip makers like
Nvidia, Intel, and TSMC continuing their
rally after a strong set of earnings
from TSMC yesterday, lifting the overall
sector. Finally, another set of
earnings. We got one from a uh biotech
company called Immunity Bio. A whopping
19% gain in the pre-market, specifically
their bladder cancer drug. They
predicted sales for the full year will
surge by 700%, considering this is a
smaller company. Uh that's why you can
see such a big rally just off the back
of one set of results. John,
>> big move up by 19%. Danny, thank you.
Thanks for that. More from Danny in the
next hour. On a radar this morning,
President Trump accepting Venezuelan
opposition leaders mobile priest prize
at a White House meeting just yesterday.
The president describing it as a quote
wonderful gesture of mutual respect.
Elsewhere, the US getting a higher price
for Venezuelan crude than the Latin
American country got before the capture
of Nicholas Maduro. Energy Secretary
Chris Wright telling industry leaders,
"America is selling the oil for 30% more
than what was paid for the same barrels
3 weeks ago." And finally, JP Morgan CEO
Jamie Diamond expressing concerns about
Fed independence as the Justice
Department probe into J. Powell
continues.
Everyone I know including the president
of the United States says we need an
independent Fed board. The question is
only about when certain things take
place and think of lawsuits and stuff
like that. Does it chip away at that
independence? Some spectrum. So you can
say a little bit, you can say a lot. If
you chip away too much, in my view, this
is my opinion, it will drive rates
higher, not lower.
>> Diamond saying he has no interest in
being Fed chair, but he would quote take
the call if considered for Treasury
Secretary. So we take the call of his
Treasury Secretary. He said on Fed
independence basically, I mean on being
the Fed chair, absolutely positively, no
chance, no way, no how for any reason
would he want to take that job. So he
clearly wouldn't want to go over to the
Fed. Interesting. He'd like to go over
to Treasury. I don't think that's in the
cards for him under a Trump
administration. He might have to wait
and see who wins 2028. Also, Jonathan,
interesting. He says the reason why he
doesn't really want to do any of that is
because he doesn't have a boss. Hasn't
had a boss for 25 years, and he likes it
that way. Not sure the shareholders view
it as such.
>> Yeah, I think they see it differently,
but ultimately the shareholders like who
the boss is at the moment and we've seen
a massive rally on that name over the
last several years.
>> So shareholders don't have anything to
worry about because he's not in
consideration to become Fed chair and at
this moment he's definitely not in
consideration to become the Treasury
Secretary under this Trump
administration. But this is potentially
something that I think for years really
we've seen opinion pieces from Jamie
Diamond talking about this. Maybe under
a Democratic president he could be a
Treasury Secretary.
>> The stock has not had a good week. Real
divergence between JP Morgan down
something like 6% and the likes of
Goldman Sachs up by four. Some real
divergence between those names to the
week so far. Let's turn back to markets
and focus on small caps. Outperform the
S&P 500 for 10 consecutive sessions.
Jill Kerry Hall of Bank of America
writing, "Good start so far and we
expect them to lead for the year." Jill
joins us now for more. Jill, welcome. It
feels like a change. I've talked about
it repeatedly. It's not about the Fed
anymore or interest rates. What is it
about now?
Thanks. I think it's about earnings and
you know really confidence in that
earnings recovery for small caps because
that's what investors haven't had for
the last several years the the recovery
and earnings kept getting pushed out.
Usually small cap earnings recover
faster and they they didn't this time.
They were obviously hit by higher
interest rates and you know tariffs
recently and it uh we've we've just had
a a tough backdrop for several years for
for small cap fundamentals. But um and
then the manufacturing downturns. But
now I think you know we're in a period
where investors can have more confidence
in that earnings recovery in our view
because we're we're actually seeing
management be be a lot more optimistic.
I mean usually corporates are are more
cautious but they're guiding up uh
they're telling analysts your estimates
are actually too low and analysts are
penciling in a you know a high teens
growth rate for small caps this year.
So, um, we found that in in periods
where growth is accelerating and where
small cap earnings growth is better than
large cap earnings growth, those tend to
be good years where small caps
outperform.
>> Jill, for some investors, not everyone,
the Russell always feels like a bit of a
trade, something you put on for a while,
it has a great month, and you move away
again. With the S&P 500, there's great
appreciation of what you own when you
own the index. What do I own when I own
the Russell?
Well, I think the one has to be a bit
more selective within small caps than
they were historically at least within
the Russell because it is true that you
know it's felt like a trade and we've
really been in this you know 10 plus
year underperformance cycle for for
small caps and that's been a bit longer
than history and you know usually over
the long term small caps have
outperformed for longer cycles and
usually these cycles can last you know 6
to 8 to 10 years but um it hasn't felt
like it recently because it's we've in a
very long one. But the Russell has
deteriorated in quality relative to
history. There's, you know, more
nonprofitable stocks. Um, there's, you
know, lower quality, more variable
earnings stocks. There's more leverage.
Um, and and the growth rates for the
companies are lower than they were a
couple of decades ago. Uh, so I do think
that's that's the bare case I hear for
small caps is that there's no good
companies anymore. The the index is
terrible. But but I don't I don't think
that's necessarily true that there's no
investable opportunities in small caps.
I think there's a lot. Um our analysts
here at BMA cover about a thousand small
and midcap US companies. And you know
within that there are a lot of
opportunities of attractively valued
stocks, ones that are seeing
accelerating earnings. So I I think one
needs to be more selective. But I do
think that this will be a good year for
for small caps and the Russell overall.
>> Could it be a good year even if the Fed
stays on hold for all of 2026?
I think, you know, that one of the the
catalysts that caused small caps to
start outperforming was, you know,
Jackson Hole and and the Fedure speech
in August, giving investors confidence
that rates were going to be moving down.
And over the last two years, we've seen
that the Russell 2000 has become very
sensitive to Fed expectations. So, it
tends to underperform in weeks when
those cuts were pushed out and and vice
versa. So, you know, I do think that we
that having expectation of continued Fed
cuts is is important to to be supportive
for the Russell and if those cuts start
getting priced out or if we were in an
environment where it looked like the Fed
were going to hike um then that would
certainly be a more more challenge to
the bullish call.
>> You also mentioned tariff rates and know
how lower tariff rates likely would be
very beneficial for small caps. How
closely are you wa watching what the
Supreme Court decides when it comes to
AIPA? And can we see small caps really
get a boost if they decide that
President Donald Trump's AIPA tariffs
are illegal?
>> Right. On a relative basis, small caps
are certainly the ones that are most
hurt by by tariff rates and higher input
costs because they have the thinnest
margins. And you know, some say small
caps are more domestic, but the the
foreign exposure of small caps relative
to large caps, that gap has really
narrowed, you know, in recent years. So
the the AIPA tariffs make up about 2/3
of the the current effective tariff rate
um of about 15% that that we're
assuming. So, you know, if those go
away, there are obviously other avenues
the administration can use to try to
bring back some tariffs, but our
economists would expect that if I is
overturn, the overall effective tariff
rate could be several percentage points
lower. Um, so yes, I mean, I think but
but overall, even if they're not
overturned, we could see incrementally
lower tariff rates, perhaps less less
uncertainty than than certainly last
year. So, um, you know, that that could
be an incremental benefit to small caps
this year as well. I think near-term,
what we want to watch this earning
season is that companies built up a lot
of pre-tariff inventory and they ran out
of that in October. So, near-term we we
could see, you know, potentially more of
a hit than companies had been indicating
so far, but we'll be watching for that
in the commentary the starting season.
>> Jill, can we just finish on the
financials? We've heard from a few
guests so far this week that their play
for this year is not the big names on
Wall Street, it's the smaller names, the
more regional names. Are you pitching a
similar thing to clients at the moment?
>> We actually like bo we like both. So we
like financials across the board um in
both our large cap and our our small and
midcap work. you know, within small and
midcap, you know, financials have ranked
at the top of our of our quant work when
we look at measures like valuations,
estimate revisions, um how many upgrades
versus downgrades our analysts are
making in that sector and you know they
the pick up in in regional bank M&A help
sentiment for the sector. We our
economists have an above consensus view
on GDP growth. So um you know a lot of
positives for the sector and you know
the large caps uh the the cippies you
know if we do see deregulation um which
to some extent will benefit the the
smidcaps as well and you know really
it's a sector that can benefit from from
productivity and it's one area within uh
smidcaps that we are actually seeing
some productivity improvements. So um
both large and small cap financials look
look good to us. Jill, good to catch up.
Big month for you, I'm sure, given the
outperformance we've seen in small caps
already. Jill, Carrie Hall there of Bank
of America, up by close to 8% so far
this month and only halfway through the
month of January. Best guess, by the
way, that we've heard a few times over
the last week or so about shifting from
the big players on Wall Street to the
smaller players, the regionals, the
financials. Some people believe that
maybe just go there because you think
banks are going to do well this year,
but it's the big banks in a firing line
down in Washington, and you want nothing
to do with that. And even the Treasury
Secretary has spoken about how they want
to go back to Main Street instead of
Wall Street. Well, think about that in
the banks, those big banks on Park
Avenue versus the ones that are more of
those regional players. And there's been
an effort from this administration, Fed
cuts, potentially individuals are
pricing in, but is there maybe a
manufacturing recovery? Is the tariff
story really behind us? An accelerating
earnings growth and a push towards
affordability that would bode well for
small caps to continue this rally. But
everyone says, "We've been here before.
Is it a false start?
>> The Russells right now up by about two
ten of 1%. Let's give an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Vonyie for
more. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thanks. President Donald Trump
calling on Congress to immediately pass
his quote great healthcare plan aimed at
lowering drug prices and insurance
premiums. The proposal would bypass
insurance companies by sending subsidies
directly to consumers and codifying
price drop deals with major drug makers.
Ford reportedly in talks with China's
BYD about supplying batteries for hybrid
vehicles at its overseas factories.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
those hybrids would be exported
worldwide. A move that's already
sparking political backlash in DC. House
China panel chair John Mullenar saying a
deal would quote diminish Ford's status
as an iconic American company.
A judge refusing to fasttrack a
Paramount Sky Dance lawsuit, accusing
Warner Brothers of misleading investors
about a rival buyout bid from Netflix.
Paramount filing the suit this week,
trying to force out more details about
the $83 billion Netflix proposal. That
is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate it.
Equities right now, the S&P 500 up by
about 210 of 1%. Up next, we'll catch up
with Vish Kanduja of Morgan Stanley.
Stocks up by 0.2% on the S&P 500, higher
by 0.5 on the NASDAQ. The Russell up by
0.3. Equities continue to rally in the
bond market. Just stability, stability,
stability for the last several months.
Tens of 418. Yields high by just a
single basis point. Check this out from
Dan Iverson over at PIMCO in the
Financial Times. You mentioned this just
the other day, Amarie. I think these
quotes are really quite important. We do
think we're in a multi-year period of
some diversification away from US
assets. It's important to appreciate
that this is an administration that's
quite unpredictable.
>> Quite unpredictable. Yeah, he had those
comments in the Financial Times. So what
do you do when what you're usually your
bedrock is quite unpredictable? You look
for opportunities elsewhere. And that's
why you are seeing investors say
actually we need to add exposure to the
world to global equities or potentially
global sovereigns because we are
concerned with the unpredictability out
of this administration. And what are we
16 days into January 2026 and already
we've seen policy whipssaw and policy
ideas that would fill an entire calendar
year.
>> I keep going back to this though and go
back to this. Look at the Treasury
market.
>> Boring. I
>> I get it. It's an unpredictable
administration. And I understand all of
those things, but look at those yields.
418. Every single day we do this, we're
around 410 to 420, 418, 419 this
morning. This market doesn't care.
>> Even Fed independents, I was really
shocked that the market pretty much
shrugged off the rare video we saw from
Jay Powell coming out of the start of
the trading in Asia. Basically, he could
have done that video on Friday. He
decided to do it Sunday evening. And the
market shrugged it off. They don't truly
believe that Fed independence at this
moment is really on the line. The market
at this moment needs more information.
>> Bond yields just a little bit higher,
higher by two basis points, still short
of 420. Joining us to discuss is Vishal
Kanduja of Morgan Stanley. Visha,
welcome to the program. I always start
here in the Treasury market and I look
for an explanation as to just why we've
been so stable in fixed income in
America in treasuries when the rest of
the world has been unstable.
>> Morning. uh thanks for having me on. I
think directly uh representative of the
policies even though coming out at
different times might have a lot of
noise associated uh with it but are
directly focused on getting better
growth in the US and slowly but steadily
bringing inflation out. So I think that
tenure part especially of the treasury
market here in the US is taking cues
directly from that and there are
counterveailing forces there
geopolitical tensions that are picking
up that are counterveailing to the
positive policies that the white house
has here which could be nominal and real
GDP positive here in the US and then the
authority that uh sort of the
administration runs with on the Fed side
that and that's why the market is
pricing in about two cuts for uh for the
year. So I think some of those
counterveailing forces proper uh
positive GDP growth uh expectations here
uh I think keeps that tenure in check. I
would say that probably around that 375
to 425 has been our base case for at
least the first part of this year uh
into 2026.
>> Vishar even with the forces developing
in a place like Japan where yields have
really started to break out. We had this
conversation with PIMCO earlier this
week. In our careers Japan traditionally
has been an anchor for global bond
yields. That story has changed
marketkedly. How relevant is it?
>> Completely changed and very very
relevant. I think we believe that at
least the BOJ very deliberate policy of
hiking and I think you can see it in
those inflation numbers. I think it's
seeping through to the uh wage
inflation. It is seeping through those
CPI calculations that they use to
actually pay uh people in the country. I
think you structurally are seeing a
massive change in that economy that
they've been trying over the last
probably 40 years uh in in that country.
They went a little off mark with the
political tensions going through. I know
there is uh still a little bit more
noise coming through in the first uh
probably four months uh of this year but
we do think that they are completely on
the path uh to probably get to that 2
two and a half% neutral rate in the next
3 to four years. Vish as you see
diverging monetary policy paths why do
you think the US will continue to ease
JP Morgan is saying no more cuts for
>> fair point I think it's the expectations
again if you look back probably the last
3 months uh we've taken out probably
about two and a half cuts from the
expectations for 2026 the market has
been completely benign through that
because those cuts have come out because
of positive growth expectations not for
a 2022 type scenario where inflation
would be spiking higher. So we don't
think that if you try to answer the
question if do we need cuts in the
economy in the US at this rate
absolutely not. But if you look at the
second part of the dual mandate uh which
is labor market that is clearly showing
that it is weakening. I think if you
take a six-month average or even a
three-month average taking the real time
uh data into into account drastic
slowdown in hiring. I know we've not
seen a big pick up in fighting but that
cyclical slowdown is here and I think
the fear is that there will be a
structural slowdown coming whether it's
AI whether it's productivity gains uh
that the country might get lucky in the
back half of this year so we do think
that two cuts expectations of the Fed
being a little bit more doubbish given
the makeup is a fair sort of assessment
from the market from that perspective so
we don't think that uh the Fed is that
relevant as long as CPI uh is then is in
that plus plus or minus 50 basis points
range. I think the most relevant part is
the White House and the policies and the
noise that is coming out of the air for
the market.
>> But the unemployment rate right now is
at 4.4%. Jobless claims yesterday
weren't alarming at all. When do you see
this shift potentially to take place?
>> I think the shift is underlying shift is
already taking place. I think given that
K-shaped economy, given that the lower
strata of the economic uh uh so the
lower strata of the economic um uh part
of the consumer is hurting quite a bit
more not only the jobs are getting lost
there but I think the inflation is
hitting a lot more uh in that part of
the economy as well. So I think you're
starting to see in the last 3 to 6
months worth of data even though the
overall numbers might not reflect that
given the change drastic change in the
immigration policy that we've gone
through. I think uh some of the
estimates that we our team uh were
coming up and the data that we were
looking at uh is probably we are down
two to two and a half million of
immigration. So I think the sort of the
math on the unemployment rate is not
showing us the clear picture but you can
see the structural shifts in the lack of
hiring that is going on and then lower
part of that K-shaped economy suffering
the most. It just hasn't been relevant
to market outcomes either. Vishar, we
talked about that throughout the whole
of 2025 that if I'd given you all that
information up front where jobs numbers
would be, you would have got the market
call very very wrong. Equities ripped
regardless of that. Credit spreads are
super tight. Looking at high yield
spreads on a Bloomberg terminal this
morning around 250. Viselle, how tight
are we in your mind? Too tight or can we
keep grinding tighter from here?
>> I think we are tight reflective of the
strong fundamentals. It is the highest
quality high yield market that we've
ever seen. Not just my lifetime but just
ever uh in the high yield uh universe
lifetime. Highest amount of double B's,
highest amount of secured bonds. Now
yes, thanks to some of the private
credit, thanks to some of the other
parts of the leverage credit market that
we've cleaned up that but part of that
is also that robust growth and uh
earnings that have taken place over the
last 3 to 5 years. So I think those
spreads are very reflective of these
strong fundamentals continuing on even
it's slightly lower growth but you know
continuing on with those strong
fundamentals and technicals have been
extremely strong as well. So overall
yield levels again going by the bond
math I think overall yield levels that
define a greatest predictor of total
return going forward in the next 3 to 5
years have been robustly high. So you
put that mix in we think that you know
it is commensurate to the strong
fundamentals that you're seeing in the
high yield market. So we are actually
overweight high yield and we are
underweight the long long end of the
very high quality investment grade
market which we do think has to absorb a
lot of that supply coming from that AI
data center infrastructure buildout that
the US will go through. So great for
growth but the balance sheets will get
strained on that very high quality part.
>> Let's just sit on that topic for I think
it's really really important because as
you know a lot of people have been
tracking this story the fuel for the
tech capex has moved away from cash flow
and now we're talking about debt. So
let's get into the debt piece of this.
What kind of borrowing demands do you
expect to see in the next 12 months and
how does that speak to the developments
you're anticipating?
>> I think if you look at the first six
seven business days here uh Jonathan I
think we've seen uh books have been
drastically overs subscribed. I think
we've issued probably about 150 billion
close to an investment grade market.
High yield is starting to pick up.
Securiz side is starting to pick up.
we've not seen a blip in that demand and
the robust demand at these tight levels
uh that we are seeing. So demand is
there because we still have that sort of
the mathdriven buyer or the overall
yield driven buyer that is still uh
putting money into fixed income and I
think fixed income dynamics have even
though very similar to starting point of
2025 has slightly changed where yields
are still high spreads are still tight
but curves are now steeper and equity
valuations are further stretched on the
other side. So I think compelling more
even more compelling sort of inflows
into fixed income and I know we debated
all last year how's that 6 to8 trillion
of cash when is that going to move into
fixed income as curves get steeper and
the delta between what you're getting
into a money market versus what you get
into a five sevenyear part of the
treasury or a corporate curve. I think
that becomes even more compelling at
this sort of point in the cycle uh that
we are here in the in the economy. So we
do think that the demand remains robust
as dispersion picks up yield is still
high. The total return potential uh
remains pretty intact for 26 and 27.
>> Vishal clinic good to hear from you.
Thanks for dropping by Vish Kanduja of
Morgan Stanley on fixed income and the
amount of supply we might see through
the year around that AI thing.
>> Absolutely. The AI market everyone is
now looking at debt and you continuously
bring this up. Open AI, that IPO is
going to be incredibly interesting. And
that for a lot of people could be make
or break as a litmus test for this
entire trade. And when you talk about AI
debt in this circularity of it, how well
Open AI does is going to be huge.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Matt Sturky of Northwestern Mutual.
He'll weigh in on that theme. Mu of PSP
Growth will join us. Steven Stanley of
Santandere and Mona Mahajan of Edward
Jones. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
The corporate sector is doing great.
>> It's all about earnings. The headline on
2026 is the noise continues to be
noisier and ratcheted up.
>> I think investors to be fair are keeping
their eye on the ball.
>> There has been a lot happening in the
face of what has been largely a
resilient equity market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive by a
tenth of 1%. The equal weight at
all-time highs. The outperformance small
caps. The Russell up by another tenth of
1% this morning. In the bond market,
remarkable stability. We've been talking
about it all week. The 10-year bond
yield still sub 420 418 93 with yields
high by two basis points on the session,
but still a very rangebound Treasury
market. You heard Alicia Lavine of BMY
talk about the noise getting noisier.
It's been very noisy. You'll get more
noise next week. the World Economic
Forum, Davos, Switzerland, kicking off
early next week and the headline event,
the president of the United States
kicking things off on Wednesday for the
US delegation
>> and he's going to be talking about
affordability back home in the United
States of America and probably telling
the World Economic Forum that what he
would call the globalist elites haven't
delivered for the everyday person. And
Jonathan, he's going to continue that
message today when he's flanked by even
Democratic governors reaching to the
other side of the aisle talking about
how tech companies are going to have to
subsidize electricity bills for
consumers. Next week, you're going to
hear a lot about housing. You don't want
to see rage mound with the with the with
the Treasury market. What's the next
catalyst? Maybe the Supreme Court, maybe
the Fed decision, but right now a lot of
noise coming out of the Oval Office.
>> Let's focus on one piece of that. So
tech, the technology story, electricity
is going to be a massive issue. Energy
costs for politicians the world over,
not just the United States. That piece
of it gets my attention for next
Wednesday. The president making a push
and really sending a message to the tech
players, you need to do something about
it.
>> And some of these tech companies already
got the message like Microsoft and
they're saying they're willing to pay
that higher rate because they are the
ones that are getting involved when it
comes to the data centers. So the tech
companies, the AI companies are going to
eventually be on the chopping block when
it comes to the president's speech. He
may call them out. You know, all of last
year it was about him looking for his
friend Jensen Wong, whether or not he
was in Riad or whether or not he was in
Japan, looking for his friend that he
wanted to talk about, this individual
that is helping the stock market. Well,
actually, he might start looking at the
tech companies and saying, "You guys
made enough money. Now we need a we have
affordability crisis. We have a midterm
election year. You might have to pay up
for some of this." Full coverage right
here of Bloomberg Surveillance on the
World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland this coming Tuesday. We'll
kick things off for you in Davos,
Switzerland in a few days time. Coming
up on this program, Matt Stoki of
Northwestern Mutual Wealth Management
with stocks trading near all-time highs.
Muk of PSP Growth as President Donald
Trump is pushing for tech giants to pay
for surging power costs and Steven
Stanley of Santandere calling for no Fed
interest rate cuts for 2026. We begin
this out with stocks aiming to end a
roller coaster week on a positive note.
Mas Stoki of Northwestern Mutual Wealth
Management writing, "Earnings revisions
are responding across a variety of
equity asset classes which is directly
improving the breadth of the market
which strengthen areas like US small
caps." Matt joins us now for more. Matt,
welcome to the program. Repeated this
question a few times already this week.
I think is the number one question with
regards to small caps. Just a trade or
something for the long run. Well, we
certainly have had our full share of
fall stars over the last few years, but
I think, you know, this is probably the
stickiest rotation that we've seen over
the last three years because those
earnings revisions continue to be up and
to the right. Um, since small cap
earnings on a forward-looking basis in
midmay bottom, you know, everybody's
been talking about the Russell 2000,
that has led the rally higher, not only
in terms of the markets, but in terms of
earnings revisions. Those are up almost
25%. And you contrast that to the S&P
500 around 14% or the S&P 600 which we
look at because they're a little bit
higher quality with less of those
negative earning companies uh up a
little bit above the S&P 500. And that
allows some of that value dislocation to
start to normalize a little bit as you
kind of think forward. And so whether it
is sustainable or not is the key part is
going to be this continued up into the
right movement in earnings revisions.
And if you're looking ahead to 2026, the
combination of fiscal, monetary, and
deregulatory stimulus entering the
picture, I think gives reasons for
investors to be optimistic about that
sustaining.
>> Matt, typically when there's a better
cyclical story to tell. Yes, equities do
well. Yields start to drift higher. It's
not necessarily problematic. It's just
how sovereign debt markets work.
Developed markets anyway. Matt, why
aren't yields drifting higher in quite
the same way this time?
Well, I I think you underlined a key
kind of risk here that um you know,
yields haven't really moved a whole lot
higher, but they haven't drifted lower
either. And and I think key here is how
the labor market uh holds up. You know,
you have a fantastic labor surprise
index over at Bloomberg that I track
pretty closely. And how that moves and
es and flows somewhat dictates how the
the 10-year Treasury has been ebbing and
flowing over the last year or so. And
that has started to firm up a little
bit. We we've seen just continued low
levels of initial jobless claims. And if
if employment and profits are tied to
one another, uh could we talk be talking
about a bottoming in the labor market as
we head into the front half of 2026? And
I don't know if necessarily people are
contemplating that because the narrative
had been so much about labor market
softening. Um and it's just a key risk
we look forward to 2026 whether or not
we're going to continue to see
improvement in uh uh you know the
monetary side of things through through
the longer end rates.
>> Matt, what do you think the source of
hiring is actually going to be? Because
what we've seen so far is a lot of
healthcare, a lot of healthcare and not
much else. And what you've seen in terms
of growth, there's a lot of tech spend,
investment growth, and not much else.
Matt, why do you think that's going to
change in a different fashion for the
year ahead?
>> Well, I mean, I I think if you look at
kind of the sources of of upside on the
cyclical parts of the economy, think
housing, think transportation, think
manufacturing. those are the areas that
may be potentially improved that really
have not been the areas where job growth
has has has been found in the US economy
like you said it's been in the
non-yclical parts the government jobs
the uh the healthcare jobs uh and so if
you look to maybe a broadening out which
everybody is talking about you have to
see that probably also include the labor
market as well um and so hopefully
that's what we see in 2026
>> how much is that predicated on basically
policies out of DC you know talking
about housing this is something the
administration is really taking a laser
focused approach on.
>> Yeah, I think that is a key component um
just in terms of the overall kind of
size of the housing investment uh part
of the capex component of the US
economy. Um you know we have started to
see existing home sales respond a little
bit. Um you know they've been troughing
out about four million or so yearover uh
on an annualized basis. That's kind of
the lowest level since we've seen since
1995. But you know in terms of how that
market responds to a change in the
financing costs uh historically it's
always been you know a drop in rates or
a compression in mortgage back uh
security spreads relative to treasuries
have have helped you know a cyclical
recovery there and and I wouldn't be
surprised if we see that. Now certainly
there's affordability challenges but you
don't need to wait for affordability to
get all the way back to kind of
prepandemic levels to see an improvement
in activity and that activity
improvement uh you tends to follow with
you know maybe some some firmness in
terms of some of the labor side of of
that industry.
>> Can we see this increasing investor
sentiment and the economy about
broadening out happen if the Fed stays
on hold?
>> Well, I'm not sure that they're going to
be staying on hold. Um I I I do think
that there's reasons to be optimistic
that by the back half of 2026 we start
we might see you know a couple more cuts
from the Federal Reserve. Even if we
don't um we think through some of you
know the compression that we're seeing
in the overall spread environment that's
that's conducive to M&A it's conducive
to corporate activity activity levels
moving higher you know to me uh you know
help with overall kind of wealth
creation that translates into overall
activity spreading out and broadening
out throughout the economy
>> well speaking of wealth creation anyone
holding Google Alphabet last year Matt
created some real wealth you've been
offering some details on a tech trade I
want to dig two drill and two with you
just briefly. Matt, 12 months ago,
coming into 2025, there was all this
talk of existential risk around Alphabet
and then it rallied 60s something
percentage points. Matt, how quickly is
this story changing from week to week
for the winners and the losers of this
great theme?
Yeah, I think you underline a key part
here just the, you know, the back and
forth between who's in the winner circle
around, you know, the best frontier LLMs
and leading in terms of artificial
intelligence and who potentially could
be disrupted and the markets um
consensus around that is shifting. Um
you know the the first six months of
2025 you know Google was underlined as
being as you know being disrupted.
Search was going to be disrupted and
what did they do to dis to dispel that
notion? Well, they reported accelerating
search growth and uh unrolled Gemini 3
which really changed the game in terms
of you know the concerns around the
level of disruption risk around Google's
business and you know the uh concern now
is maybe that open AI isn't quite
keeping pace with with Gemini. We're
going to get an update to that though in
the probably by the first quarter of of
2026 when chat GBT 6.0 comes out and
that's going to be trained on the newest
chips from from Nvidia, you know,
Blackwell Ultra. And, you know, I think
u for that maybe to be shifted back in
the favor of open AI, we have to see
scaling laws continue to hold. And so,
by no means is is leadership that's
currently being underlined uh you know,
whether it's Google, whether it's
Anthropic or or another Frontier LM, we
we think it's set in stone by any means.
um there's likely be continued uh
innovation that's delivered to the
marketplace in 2026. And so, you know,
if if you're an investor here, I I think
you just continue to have more of a
diversified approach versus penciling in
long-term winners based on uh kind of
where the landscape sits today.
>> I'm reading through your note and Matt,
you put in the note this quote from
Chase Coleman over at Tiger Global. less
than 1% of current global internet
market cap founded in the two years
after Netscape Navigator came out back
in the mid 90s. Matt, how instructive is
that quote? Well, it's one it's one
quote that I always kind of just keep in
the back of my mind as we're thinking
about, you know, these huge market caps
that we see today and the level of
concentration the S&P 500, how that
might shift in the decade ahead as this
technology rolls out and is adopted by
industries worldwide. you know, the the
potential for disruption is high when
there is technological innovation to the
extent that we're witnessing in the
economy today. And you know, if if we're
looking 20 years down the road, you
know, how does market cap shift between,
you know, companies that haven't even
been founded yet or haven't gone public
yet relative to uh the level of u
constituent concentration, the S&P 500
today. We think that's that's just
another underlining case for uh being
humble in terms of, you know, having
conviction and where the long-term
winners are and also kind of leaning
into diversification in times of of
disruption potential. Matt, appreciate
your time. Thank you, sir. Matt Stoie
there of Northwestern Mutual. With an
update on stories worldwide, let's cross
over to Vonyie Quinn for more. Hey,
Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. President Trump
accepting Venezuelan opposition leader
Maria Karina Machado's Nobel Peace Prize
medal, saying in a post on Truth Social
that it's a great honor. Machado says
she handed it to Trump during their
White House meeting as a recognition of
his unique commitment to Venezuela's
freedom.
The US and Taiwan agreeing to a trade
pact that would lower tariffs on goods
from the island nation to 15%. In
return, Taiwanese semiconductor
companies will increase financing for
their American operations by $500
billion. That includes at least 250
billion in direct investments to expand
semiconductor energy and AI facilities.
FedEx is spinning off FedEx Freight into
its own independent company. The company
filing the necessary paperwork with the
SEC today to get the ball rolling.
Leadership saying the move will let both
businesses focus on their own strengths
and deliver better value for
shareholders. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, the Morning Cause plus Mama
Cube of PSP growth as President Donald
Trump is pushing tech giants to pay for
power costs. Their conversation up next,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
It's going to be a little bit of a
tougher climb. So, think about what the
next sort of leg is in terms of EPS
revisions. It might be more like Main
Street rather than Wall Street. You
know, small to medium um sized
enterprises finally finally expanding.
And what I would say is I would look to
the regional banks.
>> Eric Ajarian of UBS on the regionals
heard a similar thing from Jericho
Cassidy of RBC. Same issue looking away
from the bigger players. Had a great
run, decent numbers. Stocks aren't
responding in quite the same way with
the exception of being Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs of course over the
week so far. Look elsewhere swear the
smaller names people look at the small
caps equity futures look like this this
morning on the S&P 500 up by 0.15 on the
NASDAQ up by 0.4 for small caps up by
another.16. Some headlines I want to
share with you. This came from the
National Economic Council Director Kevin
Hassid with this to say on the credit
cards. We've been in touch with the big
banks. There will be great new trump
cards from the banks and I don't think
legislation will be needed on credit
cards.
>> So I guess if the banks decide that they
are going to release maybe a different
type of credit card, maybe one that has
a capp interest rate of 10%, maybe 15%.
then that would acquies Trump's concerns
and you wouldn't even need legislation.
You can imagine the banks are have a war
room and thinking about besides the
lobbyists how they're going to approach
this. What I'm a little bit confused
about is that I was on Air Force One
when the president came out with the
gold card and he said does anyone know
what this is? And I said it's the gold
card. He's like gold card. Trump card
hasn't decided yet. So now we have a
Trump card potentially that's for those
foreigners that can invest in America
and get access to living here and maybe
a Trump credit card as well if you're a
bank. I'm not sure.
>> Watch this space. Equity futures
positive by a tenth of 1%. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Barclay's
raising its price target on TSMC
highlighting strong earnings. Elsewhere,
Key Bank lowering its price target on
Netflix expecting near-term volatility.
A stock up by 0.5%. And finally, Jeff
raising its price target on Nvidia,
saying shares quote remain pretty cheap
given EPS potential. The stock is up by
0.7%. Let's stick with tech. President
Donald Trump pushing for industry
leaders to foot the bill for new power
plants. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the move would fund some $15
billion of new plants to take pressure
off rising consumer costs. Mandep Singh
of Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now
for more. Mandep I'd imagine the tech
firms anticipated this. How costly is
this going to be?
>> Well, right now we are talking about one
gawatt of a AI data center costing about
50 billion and I'm sure uh some of those
uh power costs are included in that. But
look, these hyperscalers spent almost
400 billion plus in capex last year and
a lot of those investments are going to
come online in the next 12 months. So
you have to ask yourself how are they
going to source the power and that's
where uh I I think some of that
inflation when it comes to sourcing that
power is going to show up in in this
form.
>> Mandep do you think they're starting to
fear the societal push back?
>> I mean yes look uh data centers were
like low single digit in terms of
overall US power consumption. Right now
we are projecting high single digit 8 to
10% over the next 3 years. So clearly
you know something has to give because
we can't really just bring so much power
online uh in in such a short span of
time. So the push back is going to come.
>> Do you think this is a stock story yet
Mande that every time I get the
electricity bill I'm going to blame
Microsoft and and Meta? Is that a stock
story yet?
>> Uh not really because uh look uh I mean
there are so many players involved when
it comes to the supply chains uh for AI
data centers. So you can't really
attribute it to one stock but uh there's
no doubt that you know companies are
investing heavily and uh this is very
comput inensive. So uh you have to ask
about the societal impact and what it's
going to mean in terms of consumer
prices.
>> Mandy Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence
Mandep thank you sir. Thank you very
much. Mu a venture capital firm PSP
Growth writes this. AI demand is still
significantly outpacing supply. I'm on
the site the momentum continues. Mame
joins us now for more. Mame, welcome to
the show. I'd love your reaction to
developments down in Washington DC and
whether in any way, shape, or form this
will constrain or be a story that holds
back some of the tech investment we've
seen over the last year.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me on
the show. Um I think right now that is
still speculative and you're seeing the
markets not react super strongly because
I do think I continue on the narrative
that this shows that demand is very
high. Uh this shows AI innovation is
continuing at unprecedented pace. Um and
that shows in the number not just in the
energy around the sector but you're
seeing Q4 um numbers around consumption
around the large language models be at
an all-time high. uh you're seeing the
revenue growth rates um of OpenAI,
Anthropic, um Gemini and XAI be at
all-time highs. Uh and you're seeing
consumer behavior change as well. I
don't think you and I will ever search
for information the same way again. I
don't think software coding will ever be
the same way again. Um so while this uh
is something in the market to be talked
about, I do think the push around demand
and continued demand um will be a net
positive for the sector. Could it chip
away at their margins though of these
companies if they are basically going to
subsidize the electricity bills of
millions of consumers?
>> I I I agree. Um I think net net will
still be positive because we're talking
about a generational technology change.
Uh so if you think about the value that
was created um in the last few
technology shift in cycles mobile cloud
um internet uh the eventual earnings and
profits far outweigh any short-term
compressions and margins. So I think
this is going to be a sector that would
generate trillions of value in market
cap. Um and I don't think that narrative
will change.
>> You also spent a few days in Silicon
Valley. Can you walk us through this
three-way AI war you're seeing play out
right now?
>> Yeah, so the three-way AI war we're
seeing is um one is the existing public
software companies that are trying to
add AI to their um technology. So you
think of uh Salesforce, Adobe, Workday
that are um adding AI features, adding
aic features. they're coming up against
AI native startups that are trying to
build new tech stacks and chip away at
their corporate share. Um and then you
also have the large language model
providers um open AI anthropic the ones
that I just mentioned who are now moving
from the model layer up to the user and
the enterprise. uh we do think that
overall share uh of corporate spend in
AI will increase significantly but
exactly where that will shift among the
three different uh players remains to be
seen.
>> M what we've seen develop in public
markets has been interesting the likes
of Microsoft has really started to trade
a lot softer and which all of this money
go into say hardware and memory and
we've been covering that story through
the year so far. What are you focused on
and where do you think our weakness is
coming from?
I think the weakness is coming from
uncertainty. Right now, there is um not
just a three-way war that I mentioned,
but a overall war around AI in terms of
who can pull ahead and who is behind.
And I wouldn't be surprised if there's
some short-term volatility. But
generally, I think the Mac 7 um is still
pretty durable because they're actively
investing in AI and trying to hire away
AI talent. Um so it's going to be one of
those things maybe one week um Gemini's
model is going to be stronger and
another week uh you see Microsoft
investing heavily in both open AI and
Anthropic and maybe they'll pull ahead
the week um after that. So I think the
max 7 is generally pretty pretty solid.
I think where some of the potential
vulnerability and weaknesses may happen
um is in the software companies that are
uh dependent on workflows and user
interface for their core business and I
think that's where the vulnerability
really comes in from both the model
players as well as the AI native
startups.
>> Can I ask you the big question that a
lot of people have been asking which is
what happens if OpenAI has funding
struggles? What would happen to the
whole ecosystem? who would be vulnerable
and what would it mean for you
personally if that was the case?
>> Well, Open AI I would say if you look at
their revenue, they either hit 15
billion or about to hit 15 billion uh in
a very short period of time, something
like three years or so. So, I think at
that kind of growth that's really
unprecedented. Um I can't really think
of another company that grew that fast
in a short period of time. So I do think
that will continue to attract funding um
and attract interest and they are um uh
they they've also have a stronghold on
the entire AI supply chain by some of
the deals larger deals that they've made
with other players. So this ecosystem is
sort of dependent on them. But because
um both um OpenAI and Anthropic and some
of the other models that I mentioned are
growing at such a fast pace and
capturing so much market share um I
think the the long-term outlook for them
um including their funding is going to
be positive.
>> M thank you. Thanks for making time for
us. Mchu there of PSP growth on a
situation with OpenAI the tech players
the push back we're seeing and
phenomenal growth we're seeing as well.
Got to highlight the fact we're seeing
phenomenal growth. Yeah, off the charts.
But I ending with Momma there on Open AI
reminded me of what Matt Stucky put in
his note. In 2025, we went from OpenAI
to say, "Hey, we're going to spend $1.4
trillion to oh my god, we have code red
all hands on deck. All of this before
they're expected to IPO."
>> The NASDAQ this morning up by 0.5%. A
tech bounce back through the week so
far, helped out by developments from
TSMC and the voter confidence in the
future from that company a little bit
earlier this week. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Steven
Stanley of Santandere calling for no Fed
rate cuts in 2026. He's not alone. We've
seen the same story from Mike Foli of JP
Morgan. And I have to say the signal
going into the Fed's quiet period is
similar as well. Fed officials lining up
to signal basically nothing for the next
several months. Up next, we'll also
catch up with Danny. She's got your
morning movers. PNC rising on a revenue
beat. That stock is up by 3%.
The oven about 60 minutes away. Equities
positive by a tenth of 1%. If you're
just waking up and joining us, welcome.
We're positive by 0.5 on the NASDAQ and
the outperformance on the Russell goes
into 10 consecutive days. Can we make it
day 11? Not quite yet. On the Russell
this morning, up by 0.13%.
So far this morning, the opening bound
just around the corner with your morning
movers. Let's cross over to Danny
Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. We're done with the big US
bank earnings. Now we're getting some of
the regionals. PNC reporting a solid set
of results. Really helping them was
their capital markets business. It was
the middle market company mergers that
really fueled the results at PNC. So
those shares up 3.7%. It's something the
company had flagged a couple months ago
and it comes true. Not all regionals did
well though. regional financials. On the
other hand, it was a miss across the
board. It was a miss for their EPS. It
was a miss for new loans, too. Maybe
this company will start to look for a
barrier like other regionals have. The
CEO though saying that the economy looks
good. Things are turning around. Uh not
helping them this morning though. Shares
down nearly 4%. Some earnings we got
after the bell yesterday was JB Hunt.
This is the freight trucking business.
Also some real weakness for them. A miss
too on most of their sets of results.
the company seeing inter uh
intercontinental shipments falling quite
dramatically and freighting demand even
though that's low the supply is very
high the only growth they saw was on the
US east coast so those shares falling
three and a3% this morning John
>> Danny thank you looking forward to the
program Danny Burgerer and Matt Miller
coming up in about 30 minutes time as we
turn to the economy Federal Reserve
officials lining up to hit pause on rate
cuts one day before the quiet period
begins Mike McKe has more for us good
morning Mike
>> good morning John I'm going stretch out
the week to include last Friday, Friday
to Friday. And if you look at what we've
learned this week from the economic
data, you can understand why members of
the Fed are saying what they are saying.
If you look at both sides of the dual
mandate, you can see that unemployment
falls and hiring stalls in the jobs
report last Friday and maybe claims
under 200,000 sums it all up. Nobody's
getting hired, but nobody's getting
fired. CPI inflation is steady, but PPI
rose, so that suggests we still have an
inflation issue out there. The beige
book cited modest growth and if that's
the case, then it's still not an
emergency for the Fed to react to. So,
we got this in Fed speak as you
mentioned. Obviously, Pal taking on
Trump, but the markets tacoed uh that
trade. They're not worried about that.
They're more interested in whether rates
are going up or down and when. And as
you mentioned, we have uh five members
of the Fed's open market committee
saying there's no reason to cut right
now. Donald Trump's also put off his
choice of a new Fed chair again. Now he
says it'll be within several weeks. That
may be tied up with the whole POW thing.
What do we get next week? Well, not a
lot of economic data and certainly no
Fed speak, but we do have the Supreme
Court sitting Tuesday and Wednesday.
They could rule on tariffs on either
day. And Wednesday, they hear the case
of whether the president can fire Lisa
Cook. So that's going to be a big day
for the markets to watch. Thursday, a
revision to GDP for the third quarter
and jobless claims again. November
spending and PCE as the government
catches up on its old data. And Friday,
the S&P PMIs, they'll take on outside uh
perhaps influence because there's not
much else. And then we get the Michigan
sentiment final figures for the month.
So, uh, really we're kind of
transitioning here from the Fed and
economic data to what's happening on the
legal side, but that is going to keep
people, uh, watching very closely.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Appreciate
the update, Mike. My McKe there with the
week ahead. Can we bring that graphit up
just again and just look at things? If
you were to script this, you'd probably
have that Supreme Court ruling right
before the president was about to
deliver his speech in Davos, Switzerland
at the World Economic Forum.
>> I thought about this this week when we
once again didn't get the tariff
decision. And I said, "Well, that just
means that opinions are next week. Next
week he's in Davos. He's going to be
talking to the countries he already
negotiated trade agreements with and
potentially his own Supreme Court is
going to say, "Sir, the way you enacted
these are illegal." So that speech, I
imagine, you said this earlier this
week, how many times that speech going
to be rewritten? Oh,
>> it would be controversial if that
decision dropped last next week.
>> Very controversial
>> given that they skipped it this week and
last week as well. and and mean us being
very busy chasing around Howard Lutnik
and Jameson Greer and finding out who
they're talking to behind the scenes and
then going back once again an entire
another year of chasing trade deals will
be a lot but if you're going to script
it this is the Hollywood blockbuster
ending
>> let's keep it on the Federal Reserve
Steven Stanley of Santair writing this I
look for the unemployment rate to
stabilize inflation is likely to remain
stubbornly high I look for the FOMC to
remain on hold for all of 2026
Steven joins us now for more. Stephen,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Controversial call if the president's
watching this morning. Good morning, Mr.
President. Why no rate cuts for the year
ahead?
>> Well, I think what we're seeing now is
the Fed has moved into pause mode and
there at least some on the committee
that would like to move further, I
think, but what you heard from Powell in
December, I thought was really important
where he said that the rate is now
within the plausible range of
neutrality. So, there's no urgency to
move. I think that pause turns into a
full stop because I look for the economy
to do better in 2026 than most most
assumed.
>> Okay. So, we can sort of tease and
unpack some of this. So, the first half
I've got it. You mentioned Chairman Pal,
he's gone. Let's get to the second half.
What you're essentially forecasting is
whoever takes over the Federal Reserve
and we imagine whoever it is is going to
vote for interest rate cuts given that
this is what the president is looking
for, they're going to be voted down by
the committee for every single meeting
for the rest of the year.
>> Well, look, I'm going to take the
optimistic tack on this. I've always
I've always assumed that whoever is the
nominee for chair will operate more or
less as the Fed has always operated
based on the data. So if look if it's a
close call I'm sure that a very dovish
new Fed chair is going to kind of push
in that direction. Um but they have to
convince the entire committee and if the
data are relatively clear I think that
would be difficult. I would also point
out we're not talking about a big break
here because Chairman Powell has been a
dovish Fed chair. Uh and I think the
December move was the latest sign of
that. I mean, he very much personally
pushed that through, right? That
committee was very divided. The decision
could have gone either way. And the fact
that they moved in December, I think is
is clear evidence that Powell was
pushing in that direction. If that's
your case, does this set up the new Fed
and very a more of a frictious market
relationship with this White House?
>> Friction between the Fed and the White
House,
>> even if it is someone like Kevin Hasset
and you think they're going to operate
independently.
>> Well, I I mean, look, I I think it
remains to be seen. I would say that if
the economy is doing better, that is
likely to reduce the level of aida in
the White House. Right? So even if the
Fed is not cutting as as the president
has s suggested he would like, if people
are feeling better about the economy and
the president is maybe feeling better at
the margin about election prospects in
November, I suspect the heat will tamp
down a little bit on the Fed.
>> You're basically saying it all is
predicated on polling numbers
>> from the White House perspective.
>> Yeah. I I mean I
>> no how much they want to maybe jawbone
the Federal Reserve even if it is
someone that the the president has
decided he wanted to put in because he
thinks they're going to be a part of
this lowering interest rates.
>> Well, we're we're you know we've kind of
we've moved into territory where I'm far
from an expert. I'm not much of a
political analyst, but look, the the the
administration wants to do well in the
midterm elections. And I think it's very
clear from what we saw last November and
and kind of the just the general
conversation around politics at the
moment that economic issues are going to
be very important to voters, right? So
are voters feeling good about things? Do
they feel more confident in their job?
Are they feeling like inflation is less
of a concern? Those are things that are
obviously gonna if thing if things are
moving in a good direction on that
front, that's probably good for the
president and for the Republican party
and vice versa. So that's that's kind of
what I'm thinking there is that um you
know the reason I have the Fed on hold
is because I think the economy does
better. Well, if the economy does better
then you know maybe the sentiment around
the economy also improves.
>> Let's sit on that then the core of your
call a better economy. What's driving
it? what are the tailwinds that you've
got confidence in?
>> Yeah, I think the biggest one is that in
my view a big thing that held us back in
2025 was uncertainty around policy. I
mean tariffs being one of the key pieces
of that and you know I've felt for a
long time that uh that businesses would
re-engage in 2026. Not that the policy
not that policy uncertainty goes away
entirely. I mean that clearly is not
going to happen and there's always some
level of uncertainty. you're hearing a
lot more Fed officials who are
communicating that their contacts are
telling them that businesses are kind of
getting ready to re-engage a little bit.
So, um, in 2025, investment spending was
really just about AI and if you were to
strip out the AI pieces, business
investment was probably negative in real
terms through the first three quarters.
Um, I I think you'll see a broadening
out in 2026 reflecting the the tax cuts
that were put into place, the
deregulatory push, and some of the other
things, assuming that that the
administration kind of ties up some of
the loose ends around tariffs.
>> Will that be accompanied with better
payroll growth?
>> Yes, because I think the the same
dynamic that has businesses hitting the
pause button on investment is also
applicable to the labor market. I think
they're businesses who maybe would
otherwise have have hired who are
holding off because of that uncertainty.
the the the the complication around that
I think is that now what we're hearing
again what we're hearing Fed officials
uh saying that they're being told by
their contacts in their districts is
that there's also now a second feature
which is AI and do I maybe want to hold
off on hiring because I'm not sure if
I'm going to need those workers a year,
two years, three years down the line. Um
but I I mean you know if the economy is
growing as it has ultimately you have to
grow your workforce to you know to
measure up to that. So um I I do think
we'll see an improvement not a not a
drastic improvement but some improvement
in the pace of hiring enough that we
should be able to get the unemployment
rate down a little bit as we move into
the latter part of the year.
>> Will that growth lift all boats? Say the
bottom part if you do believe we're in a
K-shaped economy.
>> That is a very real phenomenon. There's
no question that the folks at the lower
end of the income scale are are
struggling more than the folks at the
higher end. Um I it remains to be seen
whether that dynamic changes. Um I I
think that there in some ways what we're
seeing over the last year or two is
really just a normalization. I think the
the the the people at the lower end of
the income scale um benefited greatly.
They they got most of the the federal
government money during the pandemic.
Um, you know, we had mortgage
foreclosure moratoriums, student loan
payments weren't due for four years and
the labor market was very tight and
skewed toward lower paying jobs, right?
Because it was the retail and the
restaurant, the high contact jobs during
the pandemic where we were seeing the
the highest payraises. What we've seen
over the last few years is kind of
getting back to to normal, which is that
the folks at the lower end of the income
scale are seeing slower wage gains than
the folks at the top. And as always,
they're not benefiting as much from
higher asset prices.
>> Just quickly, where have you got
inflation at the end of the year?
>> Uh, still in the high twos. I think it
probably accelerates early in the year
as more of the tariff related price
pressures get pushed through and then
maybe comes off a little bit as we move
toward toward the end of the year. I
think by the end of the year the run
rate will be two and a half maybe even a
slight bit lower than that but still
above target.
>> Stephen good to see you. Steven Stanley
there of Santandere with a call for no
interest rate cuts for 2026. Key part of
that call though on better economic
growth and that's what we want to see.
This came from the national economic
council director Kevin Hasset. What is
the plan in Davos Switzland and the
World Economic Forum? What will they
unveil? What will they tell us about
what they can do to address what they
called an affordability issue? This
comes from Kevin Hasset. We're going to
allow people to take money out of their
401ks and use that for a down payment on
a property purchase.
>> They did say they were going to talk
about housing. So, I guess this is one
of the details on top of the president
directing the FHFA to buy more than $200
billion worth of mortgage back
securities. Besides telling
institutional investors they need to
stay out of the housing market, now if
you are looking to get on the housing
ladder, I guess you could take out of
your 401k plans. That is going to be
incredibly interesting. And I think they
he says we're still talking about the
mechanics of it. So I think we just need
a lot more details on that one.
>> Look out for those details next week
potentially. If you're just joining us,
welcome. Equities are still positive,
just rolling over a touch. We're up by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500 with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us here's
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. State Street shares
falling in the pre-market. The bank
reporting fourth quarter earnings that
beat estimates across the board though.
Total assets under management also
topping expectations. Investors focusing
on news that the asset manager sees
expenses rising three to four percent in
the year ahead.
JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond saying
there's absolutely positively no chance
he would take the Fed chair job.
Speaking to Carile's David Rubenstein
Diamond said he would take the call if
considered for US Treasury Secretary.
Diamond also expressed concerns that
chipping away at Fed independence could
lead to higher inflation and interest
rates over time.
Federal prosecutor is charging 26 people
in an international sports betting
scheme. The case involves 17 division 1
schools and the Chinese Basketball
Association. According to prosecutors,
more than 29 games were rigged with
investigators saying fixers bribed
dozens of players generating millions of
dollars in illegal wages over three
seasons. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day and the week ahead. Plus, we'll
catch up with Mona Mahajan of Edward
Jones with investors gearing up for
another big week of earnings and a major
speech from the president in Davos,
Switzerland.
Last year, as we talked about, was all
about AI and technology. This year, we
think it's a a story about broadening.
Um, we think that there is a cyclical
recovery in the cards. We see that
because we think labor markets will
continue to to stabilize and improve.
You have easy monetary policy and
tailwinds from fiscal policy. And I
think that sets you up for a broadening
of of the growth story.
>> That was Steven Parker of JP Morgan
Private Bank a little bit earlier this
morning. Welcome to the program. around
the opening bell about 42 minutes away.
Equities positive by 0.15% on the S&P,
up by.5 on the NASDAQ. What a run for
the Russell for the start of the year.
Higher by 8% so far in 2026. Up this
morning by a tenth of 1%. What a week
we've got coming up for you. So this is
what the trading diary looks like today.
Lots of Fed speak. You'll hear from
Bulma, Jefferson, Collins. Then we get
the quiet period. No Fed speak until the
next decision at the end of the month.
On Monday, markets close state side for
Martin Luther King Day. Elsewhere, the
World Economic Forum kicking off.
Tuesday, Supreme Court opinions, results
from United Airlines and Netflix. Plus,
President Trump's self-imposed credit
card cap deadline. Wednesday, another
chance for a Scottus ruling on tariffs.
Plus, the president speaking in Davos on
Thursday, jobless claims and results
from Intel. That's quite a week just
around the corner.
>> Pick your poison on what you want to
focus on next week. for me obviously
going to be the president's address as
well as the self-imposed January 20th
deadline. There's no law, so I don't
really understand what the deadline is.
But this coming from Kevin Hasset, we're
going to allow people to take money out
of their 401ks and use them for a down
payment. The president will put the
final plan out in Davos next week. This
could have tremendous amount of
implications, not just for the housing
market, but what you were pointing to
earlier for equities.
>> Let's get into it. Let's turn to the
stock market. Mona Mahajan of Edward
Jones writing, "We believe US corporate
earnings are on pace to achieve
doubledigit growth this year. We remain
overweight equities relative to fixed
income." Mona, welcome to the program.
This is slightly unfair because those
headlines only just crossed. So, you're
going to have to do this with me in real
time. And if you don't want to go there,
don't go there. But what on earth would
happen if everyone started tapping their
401ks to buy houses? What would happen
to the stock market?
Yeah, you know, look, we'll have to wait
for details uh from the president next
week, but certainly I think the
motivation here is to make sure that all
households, whether you're in the upper
income bracket, mid mid- income or lower
income, have exposure to a diverse set
of asset classes. And I I do think
fundamentally uh that that theory and
and consideration is the right one. We
want to make sure that all households
are thinking about investments from an
early stage of their career, their
family development, their their home
ownership development. So, broadly
speaking, we think if this starts a
conversation of how should I position my
assets, whether it's in equities, fixed
income or real estate, it's a good step
in the right direction.
>> Well, let's start with where this is
coming from. So, there is an
affordability problem has been for a
long time. This administration inherited
it. Now, they need to address it. the
remedies to that affordability crisis.
How do you think that's going to shape
market outcomes in the year to come?
>> Yeah. You know, there's different ways
the administration can force this or do
this. If it's using blunt instruments
like putting caps on credit card
interest rates, that will have adverse
incomes outcomes for uh the broader
economy and then certainly the the
players in that sector. Now, if you do
this in a way that is uh let us do this
in a gradual way, let us take an
approach that offers you whether it's
tax relief, whether it's uh deferred tax
payments, whether it's thinking about
opportunities at lower rates depending
on your income level. I think doing it
in a graduated fashion makes more sense
than trying to use the blunt instrument
approach. But I think overall the
affordability issue needs to be
addressed and certainly as we are
approaching a midterm election year
makes sense that we're starting to think
about this early on.
>> If you're want to start thinking about
affordability the midterm election year,
what do you want to be exposed to in the
equity market?
>> Yeah. You know, and I think your earlier
guest alluded to this as well. We do
think that this is a year where
diversification does matter. And I
think, you know, we've we've come off of
three years where AI and technology have
really dominated leadership in the
markets. if you did not have exposure to
those themes um you really were
underperforming. Now this year we think
if you have exposure to both the AI
parts of the market but you have some
exposure to cyclical parts of the
market, value parts of the market,
international and em uh and and by the
way have a little bit of fixed income
exposure. That is the way that your
portfolio is going to perform. And I
think the combination of a steady
economic growth picture, a Fed that is
likely going to cut on the margin uh but
also earnings growth that is
accelerating this year supports that
broadening theme. When you say the Fed
cutting on the margin, one cut, is that
what you're expecting for in 2026?
>> So, you know, our base case is one to
two cuts in 2026. Uh we think they're
probably towards the tail end of this
rate cutting cycle, but nonetheless, we
do think the Fed is looking to get
towards a neutral level. Um and
typically, if you look historically,
that neutral level is usually some
somewhere around 100 basis points above
inflation. So if you think inflation
ends around or they're you know it kind
of steadies out around two 2 and a half%
a Fed funds rate around 3 and a half% to
us makes a lot of sense as a base case.
>> Since we're on the Federal Reserve this
week really kicked off with chairman Pal
coming out quite publicly and pushing
back against the administration. That
story's got old very very quickly. Mona,
do you see that as noise or news?
Yeah, you know, I think uh it was
initially quite a bit of shocking news
to hear that the the Federal Reserve
chair was under criminal investigation,
but to your point, since then, we've
seen not only Fed Chair Jerome Powell
come out strongly, but uh old uh former
Fed chairs as well as congressional
members from both sides of the aisle um
supporting this idea that the Fed
independence is important. And and what
we've always said is if the market gets
a sense that Fed independence is being
questioned or challenged, not only can
you see market volatility, you'll
probably see rates rise, especially on
the long end, as that risk premium gets
baked in. And that's squarely opposite
of what this administration wants, which
is lower rates. So there's a little bit
of an a counterintuitive
um you know cycle happening there but I
think generally uh markets have made it
clear that Fed independence is important
and that's that's probably the direction
of travel
>> and the good news is it's preserved and
yields have barely moved all week. Mona,
thank you and world class punt on the
401k question by the way. Thank you very
much Mahajan of Edward Jones. Everyone
needs to figure this out in a week.
>> Yeah, of course you want to punt that.
They're waiting on potential details. I
mean actually is is this legal? You know
a lot of employers match some 401ks.
This has a lot of work to do but also
you have to think about what does this
mean long term? If you are able to tap
your 401k you're likely potentially
going to get a more expensive home.
What's going to happen when all these
people start to retire? Are they going
to actually have the funds to retire?
Right.
>> Set the stage. It's kind of the perfect
backdrop. the World Economic Forum, a
room full of global elites and the
president going after every sector under
the planet about affordability. Isn't
that the perfect backdrop for this
speech next Wednesday?
>> Yes. Also, because many people were
saying maybe he won't go to Davos
because they want to see that he's, you
know, you know, hanging out and at
cocktail parties, which I doubt he'll be
going to. He doesn't drink, but you
know, hobnobbing with the world's global
elites. Nope. He's going there to talk
about a message how he thinks the World
Economic Forum is off track in what they
focus on. and he wants to bring it back
to the everyday concerns of Americans
and probably a lot of people in other
countries as well.
>> Compare the approach to this week to the
approach to last week. Last week was
about last year rather was about an an
administration that was going to come in
and deliver a positive growth shock. It
was going to do all these fantastic
favorable things that would be amazing
for economic growth. 12 months later and
we've got the president going into
Davos, Switzerland, potentially going
after everybody about affordability and
pushing back on things like compensation
and capital returns
>> and dividends and stock buybacks. Um,
also the fact that he's going into the
World Economic Forum with someone that
individuals from the seauite would find
terrible for their growth perspectives.
I'm talking about he's going in with
ideas that come from the far left like
Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren and
more um Zoron Mandani.
>> It's going to be quite a week coming up.
So the lineup is shaping up. Some of the
highlights of the World Economic Forum
on Bloomberg surveillance include the
Morgan Stanley CEO Ted Pick, the Bank of
America CEO Brian Mohamm. We'll catch up
with the energy secretary Chris Wright
and the commerce secretary Howard Lutnik
and a whole lot more. Looking forward to
spending next week with you. Have a
wonderful long weekend states side. From
New York City, this is Bloomberg.